M+ Museum is one of the main buildings in Hong Kong West Kowloon Cultural District. It is located on the waterfront of Victoria Harbour and the southern end of West Kowloon. It aims to promote China's Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) as an exchange destination for Eastern and Western culture and art. The museum has a unique design, with a wide horizontal base platform and a narrow long vertical building. The T-shaped building has become one of the most iconic architectural landmarks in Hong Kong. The curtain wall is equipped with LED screens, displaying artists' moving work, allowing people from West Kowloon Waterfront Promenade and across Victoria Harbour to enjoy wonderful art. "It is a very inspired relationship because as a museum for architecture as well as for design work, the institution itself embodies that relationship," said Suhanya Raffel, director of M+ Museum. The internal layout of the museum is elaborated precisely, with 33 exhibition halls and different public spaces including curtain walls, grand stairs, learning hubs, screening halls, rooftop gardens and a large-scale exhibition area "found space" excavated along the outline of the MTR tunnel. The shaped patio provides visitors with an open area spanning three floors where the artworks can be viewed from different perspectives. The buildings blend harmoniously with iconic cityscapes, which complements unique art exhibits. The grand stairs serve as the connecting passage between the exhibition hall and the cinema, and an open public space to link visual culture art, exhibition halls and visitors. Visitors make full use of the museum's indoor and outdoor public spaces to study, discuss, exercise, take a walk and relax. "People decide how to use the museum. We are actually a 'museum+,' and the '+' sign means that people have the right to use and own the museum. This museum is shared by everyone in the city," said Suhanya. Suhanya believes the core duty of the M+ is to build a bridge and dialogue for visitors and culture all around the world. She hopes there will be more visitors to come, to recognize the significance and the value of Hong Kong as an international cultural exchange center.