The High-level Dialogue on Global Development started in virtual format on Friday under the theme of "Foster a Global Development Partnership for the New Era to Jointly Implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development." Following is the full text of the chair's statement of the High-level Dialogue on Global Development. Chair's statement at the High-level Dialogue on Global Development I. On 24 June 2022, the High-level Dialogue on Global Development was held on the margins of the 14th BRICS Summit. It was chaired by President Xi Jinping of the People's Republic of China and attended by President Vladimir Putin of the Russian Federation, Prime Minister Narendra Modi of the Republic of India, President Cyril Ramaphosa of the Republic of South Africa, Vice President Hamilton Mourao of the Federative Republic of Brazil, President Abdelmadjid Tebboune of the People's Democratic Republic of Algeria, President Alberto Fernandez of the Republic of Argentina, President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi of the Arab Republic of Egypt, President Joko Widodo of the Republic of Indonesia, President Seyyed Ebrahim Raeisi of the Islamic Republic of Iran, President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev of the Republic of Kazakhstan, President Macky Sall of the Republic of Senegal, President Shavkat Mirziyoyev of the Republic of Uzbekistan, Prime Minister Hun Sen of the Kingdom of Cambodia, Prime Minister Abiy Ahmed Ali of the Federal Democratic Republic of Ethiopia, Prime Minister Josaia Voreqe Bainimarama of the Republic of Fiji, Prime Minister Ismail Sabri Yaakob of Malaysia, and Prime Minister Prayut Chan-o-cha of the Kingdom of Thailand. II. Under the theme "Foster a Global Development Partnership for the New Era to Jointly Implement the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development", the leaders discussed global development issues of common interest and reached extensive consensus. As Chair of the Dialogue, China will, based on the discussion of the meeting, implement the Global Development Initiative and make joint efforts with attending countries and the broader international community for common development around the world. Committed to multilateralism. Uphold the purposes and principles of the Charter of the United Nations (UN), safeguard the international system with the UN at its core, uphold the international order underpinned by international law and adhere to the principles of sovereign equality and non-interference in other countries' internal affairs. Follow the historical trend of world multipolarity and greater democracy in international relations, build a new type of international relations featuring mutual respect, fairness, justice and win-win cooperation, and jointly oppose hegemonism and power politics. Uphold humanity's common values of peace, development, equity, justice, democracy and freedom, promote a global governance vision that emphasizes extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits, guide reforms of the global governance system with the principle of fairness and justice, and increase the representation and say of emerging markets and developing countries in international affairs, institutions and mechanisms. Work to build an open world economy, step up macro-economic policy coordination, jointly uphold the stable and sound operation of the international economic and financial systems, promote the steady recovery of the world economy, and create a peaceful, stable, open and inclusive environment for international development. Committed to development. Put development front and center on the international cooperation agenda, stay committed to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and foster united, equal, balanced and inclusive global development partnerships, to usher in a new era for global development featuring balance, benefits shared by all, coordination, inclusiveness, win-win cooperation and common prosperity. Committed to a people-centered approach. Proceed from the well-being of humanity, actively respond to the call of people from across the world for strengthening international development cooperation and achieving common sustainable development, improve their well-being, ensure and improve livelihoods through development, pursue people's well-rounded development, and give everyone the equal opportunity to fulfill their full potential with dignity in a healthy environment and enjoy the benefits of development in an equitable manner. Committed to inclusiveness and benefits for all. Respect the development paths independently chosen by people of different countries, respect the right of all countries to equal participation and equal development, take seriously and address development concerns of developing countries with concrete actions, and reduce inequality among and within countries, leaving no country and no person behind. Committed to innovation-driven development. Seize the historic opportunities created by the latest round of technological revolution and industrial transformation, speed up efforts to harness scientific and technological achievements to boost productivity, and unleash new impetus for innovation-driven growth. Promote innovation in development philosophy, institutions and science and technology, enhance developing countries' capacity for development and contribute to their leapfrog development. Committed to harmony between humans and nature. Abide by the targets, principles and framework of the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and of its Paris Agreement, improve global environmental governance, actively respond to climate change, accelerate transition to green and low-carbon development, enhance climate adaptation, meet humanity's demands for a beautiful environment and achieve higher-quality and more sustainable development. Committed to results-oriented actions. Take stronger actions, with both the immediate and long-term interests and both challenges and opportunities in mind. Strengthen communication and coordination on development policies, and deepen international development cooperation, including North-South cooperation, South-South cooperation and triangular cooperation. Support the UN in coordinating global efforts for the 2030 Agenda, enhance the monitoring and review of its implementation, encourage UN development agencies and international financial institutions to play their due roles, and coordinate development cooperation at the global, regional and national levels to generate synergy. III. China will carry out practical cooperation with international partners, particularly developing countries, in the eight areas of poverty reduction, food security, pandemic response and vaccines, financing for development, climate change and green development, industrialization, digital economy, and digital-era connectivity. 1. Improve global governance mechanisms for poverty reduction, and draw greater international attention to poverty reduction. Deepen policy exchanges, experience sharing and practical cooperation on poverty reduction and expand partnerships to eradicate extreme poverty, address pandemic- or conflict-induced poverty and relapse into poverty and multidimensional poverty, promote full employment, and help groups such as youth and women get out of poverty. Strengthen coordination on energy policies, keep energy supply chains secure and stable, and ensure access to affordable energy in developing countries. 2. Enhance cooperation in such areas as food production, storage, transport, processing, and food loss and waste reduction, and improve food self-sufficiency of developing countries, especially the least developed countries. Make the international order for food trade more just and equitable, and keep industrial and supply chains stable and smooth. Deepen cooperation on agricultural technologies, promote transformation of the food system, and realize green and sustainable development of agriculture and rural areas. 3. Deepen anti-pandemic cooperation, step up cooperation on vaccine innovation, research and development as well as joint production and technology transfer, ensure vaccine accessibility and affordability in developing countries, and build a global immunization shield. Promote medical and health cooperation, help developing countries strengthen primary-level public health systems, enhance public health emergency preparedness, and deepen cooperation on communicable disease prevention and treatment and on maternal and child health. 4. Increase financing for sustainable development, urge developed countries to fulfill ODA commitments to developing countries, fully harness the role of multilateral development banks and other international financial organizations to provide more development resources to developing countries, strengthen developing countries' capability of independent development and better match development resources with the actual development needs of developing countries. 5. Enhance international cooperation on climate change, help developing countries deal with the impact of climate change and increase adaptation capabilities. Strengthen cooperation on ecological and environmental protection and governance, technology transfer and sharing, as well as capacity building, and enhance developing countries' capability of green development and green finance. Deepen cooperation on renewable energy and clean energy, strengthen technology transfer and sharing, and promote the transformation and upgrading of energy mix and energy consumption pattern. 6. Enhance cooperation on industrialization and industrial development, help developing countries improve industrial production capacity and manufacturing, and support the industrialization process in Africa. Strengthen industrial resilience and cooperation on industrial and supply chains, and promote international cooperation on smart manufacturing and green industrialization to achieve a new type of industrialization and leapfrog development. 7. Strengthen digital capacity building and bridge the digital divide. Promote international cooperation on digital industries development and digitalization of traditional industries, promote the integration of digital technology and the real economy, empower the transformation and upgrade of traditional industries with digital technology, bolster pandemic response and economic recovery and growth through digital means, and enhance coordinated digital and green transformation and development. Harness digital technology to promote poverty reduction, and conduct cooperation in such areas as e-commerce for farmers. 8. Promote digital-era connectivity. Strengthen cooperation on customs services digitalization. Promote "Smart Customs, Smart Borders, Smart Connectivity" to enhance connectivity among customs authorities and other stakeholders along supply chains. Improve the level of digitalization in provision of public services, and strengthen international cooperation in such areas as online education. Step up data cooperation and sharing for sustainable development goals monitoring and evaluation to promote more science-based implementation of the 2030 Agenda. Strengthen knowledge sharing and development policy communication and encourage people-to-people exchanges, including those among youth and women, to create strong synergy for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda. IV. China will take a series of concrete actions under the framework of the Global Development Initiative as deliverables of this Dialogue (list attached), including upgrading China's South-South Cooperation Assistance Fund into the Global Development and South-South Cooperation Fund, with an additional input of 1 billion U.S. dollars on top of the existing 3 billion U.S. dollars, enhancing support for the UN Peace and Development Trust Fund established by China, issuing a Global Development Report, and establishing a Global Development Promotion Center and a Global Knowledge Network for Development. We welcome the participation of all attending countries and the broader international community. V. The participating leaders expressed appreciation to China for hosting the High-level Dialogue on Global Development and issuing the list of deliverables, and expressed readiness to strengthen cooperation on accelerating the implementation of the 2030 Agenda and achieving common sustainable development. Deliverables of the High-level Dialogue on Global Development China will take the following measures in collaboration with partners to support global development: 1. Setting up a Global Alliance for Poverty Reduction and Development (GAPRD) to promote sharing of best practices and international cooperation on poverty reduction. 2. Launching an International NGOs Network for Poverty Reduction Cooperation. 3. Carrying out a series of dialogues on development experience sharing to help developing countries enhance capacity building for sustainable development. 4. Deepening the collaboration between China and the UN Office for South-South Cooperation on the Seminar Series on "South-South Cooperation in Cross-Border E-commerce for Poverty Eradication and Global Sustainable Development". 5. 100,000 training opportunities to be provided by China for other developing countries to facilitate post-COVID economic recovery and social development. 6. Launching a Food Production Enhancement Action, to further agricultural production and technical cooperation between China and other developing countries to help improve their food production capacity and enhance food self-sufficiency. 7. Holding the World Conference on Globally Important Agriculture Heritage Systems (GIAHS), and launching an initiative for agrarian civilization protection. 8. Implementing the Chemical Earth Big Science Program, to jointly build a Global Geochemical Baselines Network with other developing countries, which will provide big data support for protecting and utilizing green land and increasing the output and quality of agricultural products in these countries. 9. Training programs for Pacific Island Countries on food production, eco-agriculture and other areas via the China-Pacific Island Countries Demonstration Center for Agricultural Cooperation to help enhance food security in relevant countries. 10. Establishing an International Vaccines Research, Development and Innovation Alliance, to deepen research and development cooperation on vaccines to improve vaccine self-sufficiency in developing countries. 11. Continuing with China's Brightness Action, the Heart-to-Heart Journey and other "small but beautiful" free medical programs for other developing countries, and stepping up cooperation between paired-up hospitals in China and Africa. By 2030, China will send 5,000 professionals of the China Medical Team to other developing countries in need to help build up their capacity in infectious diseases response and medical treatment. 12. Making full use of relevant funds to support UN development agencies in carrying out practical projects in developing countries to accelerate implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. 13. Officially launching the China-FAO South-South Cooperation Trust Fund Phase III of $50 million U.S. dollars. 14. Upgrading China's South-South Cooperation Assistance Fund into the Global Development and South-South Cooperation Fund, with an additional input of 1 billion U.S. dollars on top of the existing 3 billion U.S. dollars, to support Global Development Initiative cooperation to accelerate the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development in developing countries. 15. Enhancing support for the UN Peace and Development Trust Fund established by China to support Global Development Initiative cooperation. 16. Promoting establishing the Global Clean Energy Cooperation Partnership. China will hold the International Forum on Energy Transitions and explore the establishment of the International Coalition for Energy Transitions. 17. Promoting the Blue Partnership. China will hold a series of events and support sustainable use of marine resources and capacity building in other developing countries. 18. Jointly launching the Bamboo as a Substitute for Plastic Initiative with International Bamboo and Rattan Organization (INBAR) to reduce plastic pollution and address climate change. 19. Establishing the Global Network for Sustainable Forest Management to promote ecosystem conservation and forest economy. 20. Advancing the Partnership for New Industrial Revolution to help improve developing countries' capacity to seize the opportunities brought about by the Fourth Industrial Revolution. 21. Launching a World Vocational and Technical Education Development Conference and establishing a World TVET League. 22. Launching the ICT Capacity Building Programs for Developing Countries, with a view to improving the application of information technology and capacity of telecommunications technology of relevant countries. 23. Holding the Global Development Initiative Digital Cooperation Forum and the 2022 Global Digital Economy Conference to advance cooperation on digital technology application. 24. Hosting the UN World Data Forum 2023 by China. 25. Launching a Digital Literacy and Skills Improvement Initiative. 26. Working with the UN Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (UNESCAP) to implement projects on accelerating the transition to electric mobility for public transport and Smart Cities Innovation Lab. 27. Carrying out cooperation on "Smart Customs, Smart Borders, Smart Connectivity" to promote connectivity among customs authorities and other stakeholders along supply chains. 28. Launching a Sustainable Development Satellite Constellation Plan, developing and sharing data and information for Sustainable Development Goals monitoring. 29. Holding a World Youth Development Forum and jointly initiating the Action Plan for Global Youth Development. 30. Setting up a Global Development Promotion Center, developing a project pool and holding a Forum on Global Action for Shared Development. 31. Issuing a Global Development Report. 32. Establishing a Global Knowledge Network for Development and holding a Global Development Forum. (Cover: National flags at the High-level Dialogue on Global Development in Beijing, China, June 24, 2022. /Xinhua)