Quin Snyder, head coach of the Utah Jazz, has resigned, the team announced on Sunday. "At the core, and what drives me every day is our players and their passion for the game, their desire to constantly work to improve and their dedication to the team and the Jazz. I strongly feel they need a new voice to continue to evolve. That's it. No philosophical differences, no other reason. After eight years, I just feel it is time to move onward," Snyder said in a statement. "I needed to take time to detach after the season and make sure this was the right decision," he added. "Quin Snyder has embodied what Jazz basketball is for the last eight years," Jazz owner Ryan Smith said. "The tireless work ethic and attention to detail Quin displayed each day is a testament to the professional he is. I have nothing but admiration for Quin and respect his decision." Having coached the Jazz for eight seasons, Snyder has left a 372-264 regular season record, the second-best in franchise history, only next to 1221-803 of legendary Jerry Sloan. However, Snyder's playoff record was quite disappointing as the team has never gone through the second-round in the postseason under him, not to mention reaching the NBA Finals as they did under Sloan. However, it's hard to blame Snyder for everything that went wrong with the Jazz. The team has been playing with an extreme squad for years. They relied on 3-point shooting offensively as much as they counted on Rudy Gobert defensively. A franchise like this could handle most opponents except those that could switch everything on defense and get a five-out scheme on offense. There have been very few teams in the NBA with the above resources, but the Jazz met opponents like this four times in the playoffs in the past five seasons. They lost to the Houston Rockets in 2018 and 2019, to the Los Angeles Clippers in 2021 and then to the Dallas Mavericks in 2022. It's hard to find a team that was more misfortunate than the Jazz in the league over these years. Snyder's resignation made the team's ace Donovan Mitchell feel "unsettled, unnerved and wondering what it means for the franchise's future," according to ESPN. His prospect in the team already looks tricky due to his fall-out with three-time Defensive Player of the Year Gobert. Though Mitchell's five-year, $163 million contract won't come due until 2026 summer (player option for the 2025-26 season), star players can cause the team a lot of trouble if they are determined to leave.