Editor's note: Bobby Naderi is a London-based journalist, guest contributor in print, radio and television, and documentary filmmaker. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. In a bid to remove the fingerprints of responsibility for American armed mayhem, the Senate passed a compromise gun safety bill in the wake of horrific mass shootings in Uvalde, Texas and Buffalo, New York. As ever more Americans "carry" in ever more places, expect the House and President Joe Biden to vote on and sign the legislation too, even though the Bipartisan Safer Communities Act falls short of a ban on assault weapons and a restriction on firearms purchases to those under the age of 21. At a time when gun safety laws should be stronger, not weaker, the legislation came on the same day that the right-wing leaning Supreme Court expanded the rights of gun owners to carry concealed weapons outside the home. Rendering gun restrictions presumptively unconstitutional, the court struck down a century-old New York law that required those seeking a concealed carry license show that they had a "proper cause" for it. Several other states – including California, Hawaii, Maryland, and Massachusetts – have similar laws that will sadly only lead to more violence and with profound implications on efforts to enact meaningful gun legislation that could prevent the daily occurrences of mass shootings. Take it as a lesson of our moment that the roots of the Second Amendment come from slavery and the slaughter of indigenous peoples. It needs to be understood that the new legislation is not designed to resolve gun violence or save lives. In a country where there are more rifles and handguns than people, and where mass shootings have all too become everyday matters, it's hard to imagine the current administration officials attempting to begin the disarming of the American homeland. Given the politics right now, many Americans have passion for guns and it has deep social and economic roots. They say they need to stock up on guns for defense against the rampaging gangs that would rise after the possible collapse of American society. The deep state and the gun lobby are also eager to build that arsenal to ever more destructive extremes. It's a disturbing read for any conscious human being. However much the American politicians would like to be in denial, the new legislation is still a dead giveaway, a narrative that tells of an outdated system that knows about these things and chooses to do nothing. Predominantly, the legislation puts "the land of the free" in negative light. It's a sad statement that the U.S., which withdrew from the United Nations Human Rights Council, continues to grab the top trophy in rampant gun violence. Data from the Gun Violence Archive shows that more Americans die of gun-related injuries than anything else. That includes a record number of gun murders, as well as a near-record number of gun suicides. And that's just to scratch the surface of the explosive subject of federal gun laws. It reveals that the pattern of systematic abuse at the hands of the American government under the Second Amendment to the United States Constitution remains a textbook case of human rights violations designed and implemented at the highest levels of the government. Let's be utterly clear about what will happen to civil rights after the legislation. There are genuine reasons why each and every year tens of thousands of Americans and gun control advocates take to the streets, rallying and chanting and refusing to back down. The U.S., where school shootings are an almost monthly news story and the preeminent fear of American students, will continue to succumb to the exact patterns of abusive state action that these campaigners want to outlaw forever. No less important, though hardly commented upon, is that the ruling elites will be blatant in their intentions of handing a massive win to a gun industry that drives horrific violence in the country. They make a mockery of civil rights as well as domestic and international justice. Their crocodile tears for slain students is a ruse. They seek no justice for the young victims of mass shootings. Under the circumstances, expect no shock, no horror and no self-reflection whatsoever. It won't make the news, much less the headlines on the Capitol Hill. The manufactured threat to the Second Amendment here is a meal ticket for the National Rifle Association, gun manufacturers and their dark-money allies. With firm bipartisan support, this is more about protecting the interests of the gun lobby than combating mass shootings. This isn't by accident. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries on CGTN Opinion Section.)