China and Kazakhstan on Tuesday expressed grave concern over the negative spillover effects of the Ukraine crisis. Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi is paying an official visit to Kazakhstan at the invitation of Kazakh Deputy Prime Minister and Foreign Minister Mukhtar Tleuberdi. The Chinese foreign minister will also attend the third China + Central Asia (C+C5) foreign ministers meeting in Kazakhstan during his stay from June 6 to 9. Wang talked with Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev and Tleuberdi on Tuesday. During his talk with President Tokayev, Wang stressed China is playing a constructive role in facilitating dialogue for peace. "Under the current situation, we should be vigilant against the extra-territorial forces' attempts to involve regional countries in the major power conflicts and coerce countries to choose sides," he noted. Wang said China hopes that Central Asian countries will maintain their determination, steer clear of disruption, strengthen coordination and cooperate in good faith to maintain regional peace and stability. China has never sought geopolitical interests in Central Asia, and will never allow extra-territorial forces to disrupt the region, he added. Tokayev appreciated China's impartial stance, adding Kazakhstan is willing to maintain close and timely communication with the Chinese side and insist on resolving disputes through peaceful means. As this year marks the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Kazakhstan, Wang told Tokayev it is of significance in building on the past and opening up the future for bilateral relations. Noting bilateral ties have achieved leapfrog development and demonstrated strong vitality, Wang stressed China firmly supports Kazakhstan to follow the path of development in line with its national conditions and implement its own development strategy. For his part, Tokayev said that Kazakhstan and China share the same position and common language on major international issues, adding Kazakhstan highly values China's important influence and constructive role in international affairs. An exemplar of state-to-state relations When talking with Tleuberdi, Wang pointed out the two sided have established a permanent comprehensive strategic partnership with mutual trust and friendship reaching an unprecedented new heigh over the past 30 years, which has set a model of state-to-state relations. The friendship between China and Kazakhstan is the result of the efforts and wisdom of several generations of leaders and people of the two countries, which should be cherished, he added. Wang told his Kazakh counterpart that China always regards Kazakhstan as a fraternal neighbor with high mutual trust and a strategic partner for win-win cooperation. Tleuberdi warmly welcomed Wang's visit, saying that the visit is of great significance to deepen the permanent comprehensive strategic partnership between Kazakhstan and China. He said Kazakhstan regards China as its permanent neighbor and all-weather friend and attaches great importance to the unique and special friendly relations between the two countries. Kazakhstan always places ties with China as its foreign policy priority and is confident in the future of Kazakhstan-China relations, Tleuberdi said, calling on the two sides to deepen pragmatic cooperation in a wide range of fields, and continuously inject new momentum into the development of the bilateral ties. According to a statement released by the Chinese Foreign Ministry, the two sides agreed on advancing cooperation in areas including high-quality Belt and Road construction, economy and trade, anti-epidemic and enhancing connectivity and people-to-people bonds. Both sides agreed to continue to support each other in the international community, the statement read, adding the two sides also had an exchange of views on regional issues of common concern. Forging the golden development of bilateral relations in the next 30 years Standing at a historical starting point, China and Kazakhstan will continue to follow the principles of good neighborliness, mutual respect, and mutual benefits to deepen practical cooperation, and forge the golden development of China-Kazakhstan relations for the next 30 years, Wang said at a joint press conference with his counterpart Tileuberdi after their meeting. Wang then stressed that the two sides should stand firmly together in four perspectives: First, unswervingly enhancing strategic mutual trust. The two sides will give full play to the guiding role of the heads of state diplomacy and deepen exchanges and cooperation at all levels and departments. Second, unswervingly carrying out win-win cooperation. The two sides are ready to deepen the alignment of development strategies and explore new areas and space for cooperation. Third, unswervingly carrying forward everlasting friendship between China and Kazakhstan. The two sides have reached agreement aimed at setting up consulate-generals in Xi'an and Aktobe respectively, and establishing cultural centers in both countries. Forth, firmly upholding international fairness and justice. The two sides should fully uphold the international system with the UN at its core and oppose unilateralism and acts of bullying. (Cover: A returning China-Europe freight train from Kazakhstan arrives at the Xinzhu Station of China Railway Xi'an Bureau Group Co., Ltd. in Xi'an City of northwest China's Shaanxi Province, February 3, 2021. /Xinhua)