Chinese forward Zeng Fanbo has signed with the Indiana Pacers and he will play for the team in the NBA Summer League in Las Vegas in July, according to Shams Charania of The Athletic. Zeng attended the NBA Draft on Thursday together with several other Chinese players but none of them were selected in the end. He participated in workouts with the Pacers before the draft. Perhaps the team saw something in him that grabbed their attention. The Pacers selected Bennedict Mathurin, a 20-year-old Canadian guard from the University of Arizona with the sixth pick at the draft. In his second year in college, he averaged 17.7 points, 5.6 rebounds, 2.5 assists and 2.2 triples at 36.9 percent. Mathurin may not be as promising as the top five selections, he should be able to provide instant help to the team off the bench thanks to his jump shooting ability off the dribble. The Pacers will play against the Charlotte Hornets, Sacramento Kings, Detroit Pistons and Washington Wizards in Las Vegas. As an undrafted player, Zeng needs to grab the limited time he will receive and show he can translate his potential to performance on the court. As a 2.06-meter-tall forward, he is an efficient finisher under the rim and can dribble to drive fast break by himself instead of waiting for others to feed him. The time he spent at the training base in Los Angeles made Zeng a much stronger player to get used to the competitions in the U.S. However, being able to play in the summer league doesn't secure Zeng a regular spot in the Pacers' roster. Many of the players drafted in the second round need to battle for a steady position in their teams, not to mention their undrafted counterparts. The Pacers have been sticking to their unique philosophy of franchise-building for years. They refused to tank completely, but rarely bet on show-hand trades. What the team likes are smart players who can make solid contributions. Zeng has the theoretical possibility to become that kind of player. He has the size, wingspan and agility to switch among three positions on defense. His athleticism and shooting ability give him the opportunity to become a qualified off-ball attacker, if he can move smartly on the floor. Judging by the scouting reports of and comments on Zeng before the draft, his potential was recognized by some in the U.S. basketball world. His underperformance in the Ignite in the NBA G League was the result of various factors including injury, mindset and the team's lack of chemistry. Playing for the Pacers in the summer league is small, but still a chance for Zeng to fight his way to the NBA.