As the summer breeze turns hotter, the ninth solar term of the year and the third of the summer, Mangzhong, or "Grain in Ear," is welcomed this Monday. The"Mang" in Mangzhong has two meanings in Chinese. The first refers to the awns of crops, while the second, the busy mode of farming. Therefore, the name of the solar term not only describes the condition of crops with awns during this time, but also indicates that farmers will be super busy during this time. Mangzhong also starts a period of abundant rainfall which is nicknamed "Plum Rain" season, especially in the southern parts of Asia. Frequent rain will make the weather hot and humid, and it is the right time to ripen plums. The representative animals of the solar term are mantis, shrike and mocking bird, as they appear in the three pentads of the solar term. Ancient Chinese people noticed that mantis are frequently seen in the first pentads, as newborns are usually hatched from the eggs during the first pentad. During the second pentad, shrikes, a type of raptor that likes to feed on other birds' chicks, begin to show on the branches to hunt for food. According to a bird-watching expert, as during Mangzhong, many bird chicks born in spring appear in the woods, therefore it could be hunting season for the shrikes to get feasts. As for the mocking bird, ancient Chinese people indicated that it stops chirping because it senses the changing of "qi," which is a concept that can be described as "life force." Ancient Chinese believed it permeated everything and linked their surroundings together. From a natural perspective, as the mocking bird chirps to attract mates from April, and Mangzhong is the time when the mating season comes to an end. For more: Animals and solar terms: Qingming Animals in solar terms: Jingzhe Animals in solar terms: Yushui Animals in solar terms: Chunfen Animals in solar terms: Lixia Animals in solar terms: Guyu Animals in solar terms: Xiaoman (Video provided by Zhongshan Broadcasting and Television Station, and artwork and inscription by Hu Huanliang, a member of the Guangdong Artists Association) (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at nature@cgtn.com.)