Cristiano Ronaldo is looking to leave Manchester United football club and Bundesliga heavyweights Bayern Munich are planning to land him if Robert Lewandowski departs Allianz Arena this summer, AS reported on Thursday. United have a new manager, Erik ten Hag, whose successful career in Ajax has been tagged with having his team aggressively press from the front field. As a result, Italy's La Repubblica last week reported Ronaldo's agent began to look for a new team for his client to join. Despite the fact that he is already 37 years old, Ronaldo still scored 24 goals in 39 games for the "Red Devils" in the 2021-22 season. In fact, he has been the player in best form, disappointing United since he returned to Old Trafford in August 2021. Ronaldo has already played in three of the top five European football leagues – United in Premier League, Real Madrid in La Liga and Juventus in Serie A – and won domestic titles in each of them. If he joins Bayern, he will have a good chance to add the German top division championship to his honor list. Bayern have been dealing with Lewandowski's transfer request to Barcelona for over a month. The Polish striker made it clear he wants to go to Camp Nou, even at the cost of falling out with Bayern, the club he has played for eight seasons. Lewandowski still has one year left of his current contract with Bayern. The German powerhouse can agree to let him go for an acceptable price, but Barca's offer of 35 million euros (about $36.9 million) plus five million euros (about $5.3 million) of add-on doesn't seem good enough to Bayern. Lewandowski has been Bayern's most important offensive weapon since he arrived in 2014. Though the club acquired Sadio Mane from Liverpool this week, he is not the same type of player as Lewandowski. Neither can Mane fully fill in his position. The club needs a productive scorer to remain competitive against Manchester City, which landed Erling Haaland and Liverpool, which introduced Darwin Nunez, at the UEFA Champions League. Ronaldo seems one of the best options for Bayern for that purpose.