The Golden State Warriors beat the Boston Celtics 104-94 in Game 5 of the NBA Finals at Chase Center in San Francisco on Monday to lead the series 3-2. This is the first time the Warriors have led during the Finals and they are now one win away from winning the NBA Championship this season. Andrew Wiggins dominated the floor on both offense and defense for the Warriors at home, dropping a double-double of 26 points and 13 rebounds plus two steals and one block. Though he missed all six attempts from downtown, he shot 10-for-13 in the paint. The dunk he completed over Derrick White at 2:10 in the fourth quarter sealed the deal for his team. Wiggins has never been among the Warriors' top 3 offensive options since Klay Thompson returned, but "Maple Jordan" was one of the team's few solutions against the Celtics' switch-everything defensive scheme thanks to his size and athleticism. When he was able to realize his offensive talents like he did on Monday night, Wiggins punched the opponent where it hurt the most. Thompson continued to get closer toward his best form as he made five triples for the Warriors in Game 5. He and Jordan Poole combined to drain eight shots behind the arc, which couldn't be more valuable for the team that shot 9-for-40 at the 3-point line. Stephen Curry's triple-making streak in the playoffs ended at 132 games after he shot 0-for-9 on Monday night. Having averaged 6.25 3-pointers at 49 percent to score 34.3 points in the first four games of the Finals, he only got 16 points in Game 5, partly due to the Celtics’ crazy double-teaming of him. However, that didn't mean Curry became a liability for the Warriors on Monday night. On the contrary, the rest of the team benefited from the effects of "Curavity" as they always did. The eight assists of Curry on the stats sheet didn't tell half of the role he played in running the offense with his off-ball movement and passing. Moreover, he continued to make surprising defensive contributions even if he often had to guard Jayson Tatum and Jaylen Brown. The Celtics suffered their first straight loss in the playoffs this season on Monday. Having missed all of their first 12 triples, the team only had 39 points in the first half. That cold streak was followed by eight consecutive shots made behind the arc, four of which came from Tatum. When he was able to score continuously in isolation possessions, he drew more defensive attention from the Warriors and then was able to pass to open teammates like an orchestrator. That's when the Celtics bounced back to beat a 16-point lead and led by as much as five points (66-61) in the third quarter. Nonetheless, the Warriors altered their defense quickly enough to stop the bleeding. As commentator Jeff Van Gundy pointed out on ABC, the Warriors started to lure Tatum "into traffic." Instead of double-teaming him at high posts where he could comfortably find other open Celtics, the Warriors took over his first-opportunity 3-point shooting, allowed him to drive in, but sent fast help defense when he was too deep to pass. One of the best solutions to break such defense was to make shots in the middle range. Tatum shot 5-for-6 in these areas in the first half, but he missed all five attempts in the second half. Neither did he show enough aggressiveness as he earned only six free throws and made only of them. As the other one of the Celtics' star duo, Brown was totally lost on Monday night, shooting 5-for-18 from the field. The Warriors were happy to see him slow down and dribble instead of attacking the rim from the weak side without hesitation. As a result, Brown committed five turnovers in return for only four assists. He was not alone in making such costly mistakes as Tatum and Marcus Smart combined to contribute eight turnovers as well. When the three major ball-handlers of the Celtics were so sloppy with the ball, the team understandably fell apart offensively, not to mention their 3-point shooting froze again to 2-for-8 in the fourth quarter. The Celtics find themselves in an awkward situation five games into the Finals. Their small-ball squad couldn't exploit the spacing to maximize the firepower of the five-out offensive scheme and were unable to stop Curry as wells Wiggins on the defensive end. If the team put Robert Williams III on the court, he could provide solid protection of the paint and great finishing efficiency, but Williams III's inability to shoot 3-pointers held him back from scoring more productively. Neither do the Celtics have an orchestrator who can feed him the ball to make shots constantly during half-court offense. The Celtics have won all of the three win-or-go-home games previously in the playoffs this season, including beating the Milwaukee Bucks in the final two games of the Eastern Conference semifinals. Can they do it again in Game 6 of this series at TD Garden in Boston on Thursday?