Red Bull Racing's Max Verstappen held off Ferrari's Carlos Sainz to claim his fifth win in the last six races at the Canadian Grand Prix on Sunday The 24-year-old Dutch driver was 0.993 seconds quicker than Spaniard Sainz to win his 150th race. Seven-time world champion Lewis Hamilton of Mercedes finished third, the first podium of the season for the Briton. Verstappen leads the driver standings on 175 points, ahead of teammate Sergio Perez on 129 points and Charles Leclerc of Ferrari on 126 points. "The safety car didn't help!" joked Verstappen after the race. "It was really exciting at the end, I mean I was giving it everything I had, of course Carlos was doing the same. Following is tricky around here, but I could see he was pushing, charging, pushing. So, yeah, the last few laps were a lot of fun," reported formula1.com. Sainz was taking the positives of being "for the first time this year the fastest man on track." "It's mixed feelings," said Sainz. "P1 (Position 1) was very close today and I was certainly for the first time this year the fastest man on track and pushing to the absolute limit to try and put some pressure on Max and maybe force him into a mistake. "This gives me confidence for the future. It's a shame that where I had the best pace, the win didn't come but it was still very good." "It feels great to be in amongst the battle," said Hamilton. "For a second I was kind of keeping up with these guys. It's given me and the team a lot of hope that there's more to come from this car, the potential is there." The grand prix stewards gave a five-second time penalty to Alpine's Fernando Alonso, who took second place in qualifying, dropping him from seventh to ninth. "Alonso was called to the stewards' room at the end of the race, after he was seen to be weaving on the straight on the penultimate lap of the Grand Prix, as he defended from the charging Alfa Romeo of Valtteri Bottas," according to the formula1.com. Therefore, Alfa Romeo's Chinese racer Zhou Guanyu was moved from P9 to P8, one place behind his teammate Bottas. Zhou gained four points in the Canadian race. It was the first time he was awarded points since he finished 10th with one point during his debut Bahrain race in March. "It's only the start of this journey! P8!" Zhou wrote in a tweet after the race. Sporting moments at the F1 Canadian Grand Prix Read more: History made: China's Zhou Guanyu finishes 10th at dream F1 debut China's first F1 driver pumped up for his rookie year Exclusive interview: Zhou Guanyu is excited for his F1 debut Zhou Guanyu: My dream has come true and I look forward to 1st F1 race