Chinese President Xi Jinping on Friday stressed the need to advance economic globalization when he addressed the plenary session of the 25th St. Petersburg International Economic Forum (SPIEF) in virtual format upon invitation. Xi said it is important that all countries strengthen the "soft connectivity" of development policies and international rules and standards. Attempts at decoupling, supply disruption, unilateral sanctions and maximum pressure should be rejected, and trade barriers be removed so as to keep global industrial and supply chains stable, tackle the worsening food and energy crises, and revive the world economy, he said. Xi pointed out that the world is facing major changes and a pandemic, both unseen in a century, and that economic globalization is facing headwinds, as well as there being unprecedented challenges to the implementation of the UN's 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. "At a time when the international community is so keen about achieving more equitable, sustainable and secure development, we should seize opportunities, meet challenges head-on, and work on the implementation of the Global Development Initiative to build a shared future of peace and prosperity," he said. An enabling environment for development should be fostered, said the Chinese president, adding that it is important to follow true multilateralism, and respect and support all countries' pursuit of development paths suited to their national conditions. Xi added that it is also important to build an open world economy and increase the representation and voice of emerging markets and developing countries in global economic governance, with a view to making global development more balanced, coordinated and inclusive. "We need to strengthen development partnerships," Xi said, stressing the importance of enhancing North-South and South-South cooperation, pooling cooperation resources, platforms and networks of development partnerships, and scaling up development assistance in order to forge greater synergy for development and close the development gap. He also called on countries to pursue innovation-driven development, stressing the importance of unlocking the potential of innovation-driven growth, improving the rules and institutional environment for innovation, and breaking down barriers to the flow of innovation factors. Xi urged efforts to deepen exchanges and cooperation in innovation, facilitate a deeper integration of science and technology into the economy, and make sure the fruits of innovation are shared by all. The Chinese president pointed out that the fundamentals of the Chinese economy – its strong resiliency, enormous potential and long-term sustainability – remain unchanged. "We have full confidence in China's economic development. China will continue to promote high-quality development, expand high-standard opening-up with firm resolve, and pursue high-quality Belt and Road cooperation," said Xi. China stands ready to work with Russia and all other countries to explore development prospects, share growth opportunities, and make new contributions to deepening global development cooperation and building a community with a shared future for mankind, Xi added. The plenary session of the 25th SPIEF was held in an online plus offline format in St. Petersburg, Russia on Friday. Russian President Vladimir Putin, Egyptian President Abdel Fattah El-Sisi and Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart K. Tokayev, among others, attended the event.