Dealing with periods can be difficult for professional athletes, but experience and advances in medicine and technology can provide solutions, women's tennis world number one Iga Swiatek said on Wednesday. The 21-year-old is the second player to address the issue at the French Open after Chinese 19-year-old player Zheng Qinwen said she had suffered menstrual cramps following her fourth-round loss to Swiatek on Monday. "The leg was also tough. That, compared to the stomach, was easy. I cannot play my tennis, (my) stomach was too painful," Zheng, ranked 74 in the world, told reporters after the match with Swiatek. After edging out Jessica Pegula to reach the French Open's final four, Swiatek said, "At the beginning of the careers it's sometimes very tricky to manage that properly." "But when you get the experience and actually find some solutions, that may help you. It's easier later. I think we have a pretty comfortable situation because, health care and technology, the medicine technology went up," she said. "So, it's probably easier for us to choose the proper solution than it was like 15 years ago." Zheng had said she had no pain during the opening set but took a medical time out at 3-0 down in the second, having her back massaged on court before going to the locker room and returning with her right thigh strapped. Swiatek, the top seed in Paris, praised Zheng for speaking up about the issue. "You don't have to speak about it, but it's pretty nice that they're doing that because we are facing those problems," she said. "And it's cool that she's honest. But it's up to every player if they want to talk about that or not," she added. "I think she (Zheng) has to just find a way to deal with that so it's not going to influence her performance." In 2016, Chinese swimmer Fu Yuanhui spoke up about having her period during the Rio Olympics. "My period started last night. So, I'm feeling pretty weak and really tired. But this isn't an excuse. At the end of the day, I just didn't swim very well," Fu told reporters after her swim. (With input from Reuters) Read more: The next Li Na? Chinese sensation Zheng Qinwen stuns former champion Halep at French Open Zheng Qinwen beats Alize Cornet to reach French Open Round of 16 Iga Swiatek survives China's Zheng Qinwen, enters French Open quarters A shift in China's Olympic attitude at Rio 2016