Four big men, who could theoretically play positions 3 to 5, were selected with the top three picks in the 2022 NBA Draft at the Barclays Center in Brooklyn on Thursday: The Orlando Magic drafted Paolo Banchero from Duke University with the first-overall pick. The Oklahoma City Thunder drafted Chet Holmgren from Gonzaga University with the second-overall pick. The Houston Rockets drafted Jabari Smith Jr from Auburn University with the third-overall pick. The Sacramento Kings drafted Keegan Murray from the University of Iowa with the fourth pick. The Magic made a very surprising decision since Smith Jr had been considered as the most likely first selection for as long as six months. The team made Banchero the second first-overall selection in the NBA Draft from Italy since Andrea Bargnani in 2006. Bargnani is not the best example for a European player in the NBA, but fortunately, the Magic don’t have to worry about Banchero growing into a player like that. With a 2.08-meter height, 2.16-meter wingspan and 113-kilogram weight, Banchero is an explosive power forward who has averaged 17.2 points and 7.8 rebounds in 39 college games. It will take him some time to develop reliable 3-point shooting in the league, but he should be able to charge the rim more efficiently than many from his class after dropping at least 15+points and 10+rebounds per game in the NCAA Tournament this year. The Thunder continued to collect young promising talent. Holmgren is not as athletic as either Banchero or Smith Jr, but he may be the best defensive big man of the 2022 Class. As a true seven-footer (2.13 meters tall), he has averaged 3.7 blocks during his college career. Moreover, he was both an excellent finisher under the rim and a trustworthy 3-point shooter who could make 1.3 triples at 39 percent per game. Holmgren has a lot of muscle to put on since he is only 88 kilograms, but he needs to do it at a reasonable pace to avoid injuries. The Thunder also selected Jalen Williams from Santa Clara University with the 12th pick and acquired Ousmane Dieng who was drafted by the New York Knicks with the 11th pick. When Smith Jr heard Banchero instead of himself was selected in the first pick on Thursday night, the word "disappointment" was right on his face, but the Rockets were one of the luckiest teams to select him in this year's draft. He is one of the best 3-point shooters of the 2022 Class after averaging 2.3 triples at 42 percent. His 2.08-meter height only makes it even more difficult to guard when he fires from outside. Smith Jr should fit in well with the young squad of the Rockets. His lack of shot-creating ability won't be a problem because the team has Kevin Porter Jr and Jalen Green to shoulder the playmaking duties. As a stretch four, Smith Jr can make a good offensive pair with Alperen Sengun, who just finished his rookie season in the NBA. The fifth to 14th selections in the 2022 NBA Draft went as follows: The Detroit Pistons selected Jaden Ive from Purdue University with the fifth pick. The Indiana Pacers selected Bennedict Mathurin from University of Arizona with the sixth pick. The Portland Trail Blazers selected Shaedon Sharpe from the University of Kentucky (for which he didn’t play any game) with the seventh pick. The New Orleans Pelicans selected Dyson Daniels who played for the Ignite in the G League with the eighth pick. The San Antonio Spurs selected Jeremy Sochan from Baylor University with the ninth pick. The Washington Wizards selected Johnny Davis from the University of Wisconsin–Madison with the 10th pick. The New York Knicks selected Ousmane Dieng from the New Zealand Breakers of the National Basketball League (NBL) with the 11th pick and then sent him to the Thunder. The Oklahoma City Thunder selected Jalen Williams from Santa Clara University with the 12th pick. The Charlotte Hornets selected Jalen Duren from the University of Memphis with the 13th pick and then traded him to the Knicks, which then moved him to the Pistons, together with Kemba Walker. The Cleveland Cavaliers selected Ochai Agbaji from the University of Kansas with the 14th pick.