The Golden State Warriors defeated the Boston Celtics 107-97 in Game 4 of the National Basketball Association (NBA) finals at TD Garden in Boston on Friday to tie the series 2-2. The Warriors had their home advantage back after this victory as they will play at home at Chase center twice in the following three games, including Game 5 on June 13. Though Friday witnessed another win in double digits by either of the two teams, like every of the previous three games, the process was a lot more difficult than the result showed. The Warriors were trailing during most of the game. Stephen Curry aside, the rest of the team shot 8-for-29 from downtown. Such disadvantages only proved how significant Curry was to the team and how valuable the 43 points, 10 rebounds and seven 3-pointers he scored were to their win on Friday. Furthermore, he also earned nine free throws and made eight of them, both the most in the game in spite of multiple fouls committed on him but missed by the referees. You rarely see Curry play with rage, but he did so on Friday night. He yelled at the Celtics' bench after draining a triple in the first quarter. The Celtics, which allowed the fewest points by the opponent in the regular season, as well as Defensive Player of the Year Marcus Smart, couldn't slow Curry down in this game. Of course, other Warriors made key contributions too. Klay Thompson made four triples to carry on the team's firepower; Andrew Wiggins had a double-double of 17 points and court-high 16 rebounds; he was joined by Kevon Looney who played off the bench but still grabbed 11 rebounds and the best plus-minus of +21. Then there was Draymond Green, who continued to play like a double-edged sword in Friday's game. He shot 1-for-7 from the field to get only two points, but had nine rebounds, including team-high five on the offensive glass, eight assists and four steals. The Celtics still left him open at the 3-point line, but perhaps Green heard Jeff Van Gundy's commentary before he appeared more often in the paint, where it's more likely for him to get rebounds. Another good job by Green was his defense on Jaylen Brown. Brown averaged 15 points in the first quarters of the past two games, shot 1-for-4 from the court in the first quarter on Friday night to get only two points. Green, instead of Thompson, picked him up from the beginning of the game. Despite the loss, the Celtics had a good start at home in Game 4. The Warriors changed their starting lineup by replacing Looney with Otto Porter Jr., obviously for the offence's sake. However, Robert Williams III broke their scheme by working efficiently under the hoop. He got five points, 10 rebounds and two blocks. When Porter Jr. couldn’t make shots from outside, he became a defensive liability because he is too slow to stop the Celtics' perimeter players and not big enough to contain Williams III on the interior. Jayson Tatum grew hot quickly by draining three triples to score 12 points in the first quarter. However, such a performance was too short-lived as he shot 4-for-17 from the field in the rest of the game. When he couldn't stay productive in individual attacks to draw extra defensive attention, his predictable passings could easily be stolen to become turnovers. Tatum, who committed six turnovers on Friday night, was not the only sloppy baller of the Celtics. The team had 15 turnovers, which enabled the opponent to get 19 easy points by exploiting these mistakes. In a low score game like this, turning the ball over easily on offense equals committing a crime on defense. The Celtics have not suffered straight losses so far in the playoffs this season thanks to the excellent abilities of coach Ime Udoka to adapt the team's game and Tatum to bounce back from slump. Udoka must have seen the strong presence of Williams III, but the big man already saw his time rise to over 31 minutes on the floor. Will the team's offense and his knees be at risk if he plays longer in the game? As for Tatum, he needs to be more determined in individual attacks and make the opponent's defense pay with it before considering orchestrating. Hesitating was behind every  one of his underperforming games in the post season. There is a difference between simply working hard and focusing on doing what he does best. The Warriors lost first and then altered to win in the past four games. That showed the team's resilience, but also the fact they had no control over the momentum of the series. If they can break the loop in Game 5 at home, it can be the an important step for the team to reverse the situation.