To celebrate the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland, the TV documentary channel of China Global Television Network (CGTN) will start broadcasting in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) on July 1. A large number of content-rich, well-produced program will be available to the Hong Kong audience through digital television channels of the Radio Television Hong Kong (RTHK). Documentary "Hong Kong, a View from the Air" takes an aerial view of Hong Kong from sunrise to nightfall. Skyscrapers, harbors, busy streets, and bridges across the sea are shot in the distance, leaving behind mesmerizing frames of Hong Kong. The documentary will premiere at 0:00 a.m. on July 1 and will be broadcast 12 times during the daytime, allowing the global audience to enjoy the unique charm of Hong Kong. In addition to this documentary dedicated to introducing Hong Kong, CGTN Documentary Channel will also launch a series of high-quality documentaries, covering topics such as traditional Chinese culture, natural ecological protection, infrastructure construction projects, food, and music, etc., presenting the cultural heritage in the depth of history and the great beauty of China in the breadth of space. Cultural documentaries "Every Treasure Tells a Story", "China's Greatest Treasures", "The Journey of Rice", and "Taste City" focus on the excellent traditional Chinese culture explore the historical stories of precious cultural relics and different tastes of the cuisine of Chinese cities including Hong Kong. Audiences will be able to experience the broad and profound Chinese culture in history through these documentaries. The nature documentaries "Qilian Mountain National Park", "The Blue World" and "Guardians of Nature" focus on the beautiful landscape of China. The record of the precious and endangered wild animals and plants unfold a picture of natural ecology of China. Science and technology documentaries such as "Remarkable construction", "Hi, Mars", and "Airport for the Future" focus on China's major scientific and technological progress such as space engineering, as well as many mega projects. Documentaries such as "Salt for Life" and "Be Crazy About Music" will also be released.