Chinese State Councillor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Friday hailed the 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA), saying it has achieved fruitful results despite all the difficulties. Wang made the remarks during a phone conversation with Abdulla Shahid, president of the 76th session of the UNGA and foreign minister of the Maldives. Shahid will be succeeded by Hungarian diplomat Csaba Korosi, who was elected president of the upcoming 77th session of the UNGA on Tuesday, in September. During talks over the phone, Wang said the 76th session of the UNGA has helped inject new impetus into the global governance, build a new platform to unite the international community's synergies and make new contributions to the cause of world peace and development. China appreciates the role Shahid has played, and will continue to support the work of the UNGA, he said. The General Assembly should uphold the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, practice genuine multilateralism, and play a greater role in areas such as climate change, the global fight against the pandemic, sustainable development, and other areas where the future of the international community is at stake, said Wang. For his part, Shahid said he appreciated China's constructive efforts and important contributions to the UNGA, and its support for the presidency to perform its duties. The General Assembly will continue to strengthen collaboration with China to jointly address global challenges, practice multilateralism, uphold the authority of the UN, and promote post-pandemic recovery and sustainable development, he said. China-Maldives ties This years marks the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and the Maldives. During the talks, Wang said China is willing to continue to cooperate with the Maldives to fight the COVID-19 pandemic, promote a post-pandemic recovery, and inject new impetus into the future-oriented China-Maldives comprehensive friendly and cooperative partnership. Shahid said the Maldives is ready to deepen cooperation with China to promote a greater development of the relations.