China's database industry is evolving to the next stage, featuring an integration of database, the Cloud, artificial intelligence and blockchain, Wei Liang, vice president at the China Academy of Information and Communications Technology, said on Wednesday. After 40 years of development, China's database industry has come under the spotlight. The Chinese government is boosting the establishment of a more digitalized and effective kind of governance. Meanwhile, domestic database vendors possess their own business specialty, as well as cutting-edge technologies. China has 116 database vendors so far, accounting for a market size of $4.7 billion, Wei said at a database symposium held by the China Computer Federation in Beijing. The industrial seminar also underscored the future of cloud service-based innovation, addressing that independent database research and development are vital to the future of the industry. Instead of using the traditional architecture of computers to support today's needs, Cloud computing is the future of database, Li Feifei, vice president of Alibaba Group, said during a panel talk. "When you move anything to the Cloud, all the resources are put together and shared together. So you can do autoscaling, the decouple, or separation of all these resources ... That gives you much better elasticity, much better high availability, and horizontal scalability," he said. The private sector will benefit from streamlined access to technological solutions from the database ecosystem in China, while public services and individuals could also gain technological support from improved digital services. By 2025, China will strive to improve the top-level design and coordination mechanism of a digital government that matches the modernization of the country's national governance system, according to a guideline released by the State Council of China recently. Per the guideline, major advancements would emerge in making and implementing scientific government policies, conducting targeted measures in social governance, and providing efficient public services. China's cloud database market is roughly dominated by several tech companies, such as Alibaba, Huawei and Tencent, among others. With many global successful precedents, China's diverse application scenarios from e-commerce to fin-tech enable those companies to surpass many competitors. "A lot of our technologies are driven by our internal business needs. Like the Double Eleven shopping festival and Alipay, the scenarios provide us with many opportunities to practice the technologies. We benefit greatly from the development of China. The fast-pace development of Chinese economy in the last 20 years or so provides a vast market that [is] unparalleled in any other place on this planet," Li told CGTN.