The Los Angeles Rams have reached agreement with their wide receiver Cooper Kupp over a three-year, $80 million contract extension, ESPN reported on Wednesday. Kupp's new deal includes $75 million guaranteed money, the most for a player in his position in NFL history. It beat the number of Tyreek Hill ($72.2 million), Stefon Diggs ($70 million) and Davante Adams ($65.7 million), all of whom signed lucrative contracts during this offseason. "Really glad to be coming back to Los Angeles and be here in the long haul," Kupp said in a video posted by the Rams on Twitter. "This is going to be an incredible ride. Can't wait to get back at it." "I'm not trying to compare myself. I'm not trying to say, 'OK, well where was Tyreek [Hill] at? All those guys that got deals, where were all those guys at? And I need to be higher than them in certain places,'" he said after Tuesday's first practice of minicamp with the team. In his fifth season with the Rams during 2021-22, Kupp led the league in receptions (145), receiving yards in total (1,947) and per game (114.5) as well as touchdowns (TDs, 16) during the regular season. He was selected for Pro Bowl, First-team All-Pro and Offensive Player of the Year. Only three players have done so before him since the merger with the AFL in 1970. In Super Bowl LVI against the Cincinnati Bengals at SoFi Stadium in Inglewood on February, Kupp connected with quarterback (QB) Matthew Stafford twice to score TDs and was named the Super Bowl Most Valuable Player for his incredible performance in the game. Kupp told reporters on Tuesday that he was seeking a deal that is "great" for the team, himself and his family. The Rams lost outside linebacker Von Miller to the Buffalo Bills in March. They signed big deals to acquire linebacker Bobby Wagner and wide receiver Allen Robinson II. Moreover, the team extended Stafford's contract for four years, $160 million and restructured defensive tackle Aaron Donald's deal to make him the highest-paid non-QB player in league history. The Rams will host the Bills at home in season opener on September 8.