Next week, President Xi Jinping will visit the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) for the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy will virtually address the G7 and NATO summits occurring over the coming week. 25th anniversary of HK's return July 1 this year marks the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland. President Xi Jinping will attend a meeting celebrating the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland and will also attend the inaugural ceremony of the sixth-term government of the HKSAR. G7, NATO leaders to ratchet up pressure on Russia Leaders from the Group of Seven rich democracies and the NATO alliance will work to increase pressure on Russia over its conflict with Ukraine next week. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy will address both meetings virtually, mapping out his battle plan to counter Russia and the security assistance his country needs to carry it out. U.S. President Joe Biden is meeting with other G7 leaders in southern Germany at the G7 summit on June 26-28, and will head to Madrid for the NATO summit on June 29-30, where the alliance is expected to announce plans to expand its forces in eastern Europe and Washington will lay out steps to strengthen European security. A series of panels on infrastructure, climate and foreign policy will be on the G7 summit agenda, beginning with a discussion on the global economy for which the crisis in Ukraine will remain a central topic. Day by day: Monday: Preliminary plenum vote on bills to dissolve the Knesset of Israel; the second day of G7 Summit; NATO Secretary General Jen Stoltenberg gives pre-summit press conference ahead of the Madrid meeting. Tuesday: NATO two-day summit is held in Madrid; Sentencing of Ghislaine Maxwell after being found guilty of child sex trafficking. Wednesday: Verdict in the trial of suspects over the November 2015 Paris attacks; UN Security Council meeting on the DRC. Thursday: Ferdinand Marcos Jr to be sworn in as president of the Philippines; Indonesian President Joko Widodo visits Moscow. Friday: The 101st founding anniversary of the Communist Party of China; 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland and the inaugural ceremony of the sixth-term government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region; European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen visits Czech Republic as the country officially starts its EU presidency. Saturday: Demonstrators protest against rising prices in Israel. Sunday: A quiet day in politics. (With input from agencies)