Less than a month after Lionel Messi topped Forbes' highest-paid athletes list for 2022 with pre-tax gross earnings of $130 million a year, the Paris Saint-Germain superstar reminded the world just how exceptional he can be on the pitch when he is back in the groove. The seven-time Ballon d'Or winner, who found the back of the net only six times in 26 Ligue 1 appearances for PSG this season, scored all five goals as Argentina thrashed Estonia 5-0 in a friendly in Pamplona, Spain on Sunday night. Messi's stunning display in front of a boisterous crowd showcased the various lethal weapons in his huge armory: the five goals included a solo effort after a mazy run, a predatory finish, a sensational side-footed drive and an accurate penalty. The result meant the 34-year-old surpassed Ferenc Puskas to become the fourth highest-scorer in the history of men's international football with 86 goals. He now only trails Mokhtar Dahari (89), Ali Daei (109) and Cristiano Ronaldo (117). The last time an Argentina player scored five times in an international game was in 1942 when Charro Moreno helped Argentina bulldoze Ecuador 12-0. It took 80 years for the magic to be repeated. This was the first time Messi netted five in a game for his country, but he already achieved the feat at club level in March 2012 when he inspired Barcelona to a 7-1 demolition of Bayer Leverkusen in the Champions League. According to stats provider Squawka, he is the first man in history to score five goals in both a European Cup/Champions League game and a senior international game. The achievement capped a stellar week for the Argentinian, who led his team to a commanding 3-0 win over Italy on Wednesday in the Finalissima, a showdown between the champions of Europe and South America. Argentina have now extended their unbeaten run – the longest currently intact in international football – to 33 matches. If Messi and his teammates can continue this fantastic form in Qatar later this year, La Albiceleste will be the overwhelming favorites to achieve World Cup glory. Elsewhere, Messi's arch-rival Ronaldo also showed no sign of slowing down as the 37-year-old scored twice in four minutes in Portugal's comfortable 4-0 victory against Switzerland in the Nations League. The Manchester United talisman was heavily involved in Portugal's opening goals as William Carvalho took advantage of the loose ball after Ronaldo's ferocious free-kick was only parried by goalkeeper Gregor Kobel. Ronaldo doubled the advantage with a brilliant shot from a Diogo Jota assist, and then made it 3-0 for his 117th international goal before Joao Cancelo completed the rout. In Prague, Athletic Bilbao defender Inigo Martinez rescued Spain with a late equalizer as his team clinched a 2-2 draw against the Czech Republic. The Czechs had led through Jakub Pesek's finish, but were pinned down by Barcelona wunderkind Gavi. Jan Kuchta's chip looked to have settled the game but Martinez had the last word.