Ivan Perisic has become Antonio Conte's first summer signing for Tottenham as the Premier League side confirmed on Tuesday night that the vastly experienced Croatian star has agreed to a deal that will run until 2024. "I'm really excited to start with my new sports family. It's going to be my home," said the 33-year-old in a statement. "When I got the contact from the coach and sporting director [Fabio Paratici], I told them that I really wanted to come here, and to the Premier League since 2009 when I started playing professionally in Belgium. This is the moment and I can't wait. "It's a privilege to work with a coach like this. We did well at Inter – we won the league after 10 or 11 years. It was really a perfect year. I'm really happy to see him again. He lives football; every minute, every hour, every day. Even when he's sleeping, he's thinking about football. I like his character and I know we're going to do a great job here. "I was watching the last two, three games. After beating Arsenal it was obvious that Tottenham would be in the Champions League and it's also good for me because I want to play the best games." Perisic also penned an emotional farewell letter to Inter Milan where he has won the Serie A, the Coppa Italia and the Italian Super Cup during a six-year spell. "After 254 games, 55 goals, 49 assists, three trophies and 18,934 minutes spent on the pitch wearing this glorious jersey, my journey here has come to an end," he wrote on Instagram. "⁣⁣⁣⁣Even though every end means a new beginning, it's important to reflect back on these past years and show you my deepest appreciation for the work accomplished. ⁣⁣⁣⁣ "It was an unforgettable learning experience for me as a player and for my whole family. ⁣⁣⁣⁣To the team, the staff, to all the employees but most importantly to the fans – you will always have a special place in my heart. ⁣⁣⁣⁣I leave feeling privileged having this club in my portfolio." When asked about Perisic's departure, Inter Milan chief Giuseppe Marotta told reporters, "There is regret, but he wanted to try a new experience in the Premier League. We were not in a position to make better offers, simply his choice was based on a different future than the current one. Maximum respect for that and a big thank you to him as well." Espanyol welcome new head coach Elsewhere, Spanish side Espanyol announced that former Granada boss Diego Martinez will be their new head coach next season. Espanyol finished 14th in La Liga last season, only four points clear of relegation zone. Vicente Moreno was duly sacked and Martinez will be tasked with overhauling the struggling squad. Martinez led low-budget Granada to impressive seventh and ninth positions in the topflight during his two seasons in charge. He also guided them to the quarterfinal of the 2020/21 Europa League before being knocked out by English powerhouse Manchester United. The appointment of Martinez on a two-year contract means Chinese striker Wu Lei could start over with a clean slate. The 30-year-old only started four league games under Moreno in the last campaign and was an unused substitute on most occasions. Wu's lack of playing time at Espanyol has seriously hampered his development amid speculation around his future. But the former Chinese Super League top scorer said last month that he will stay at the club and fight for more minutes on the pitch next season.