The Union of European Football Associations (UEFA), the football governing body of Europe, issued an apology on its official website on Friday to fans for the "distressing events" in the Champions League final between Real Madrid and Liverpool at the Stade de France in Paris on May 28. "UEFA wishes to sincerely apologise to all spectators who had to experience or witness frightening and distressing events in the build-up to the UEFA Champions League final at the Stade de France on 28 May 2022 in Paris, on a night which should have been a celebration of European club football. No football fan should be put in that situation, and it must not happen again," the body said in the statement. The top game of European football was relocated from the Gazprom Arena in St Petersburg to the Stade de France because of the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine. The original kick-off time was 21:00, but was delayed "due to the late arrival of fans," UEFA said at the time. According to reports, police officers clashed with fans who tried to enter the stadium and tear gas was used by riot police on fans, including women and children. It was later revealed that some tried to attend the final with fraudulent tickets or no tickets at all. UEFA said an independent investigation into the events will be launched. "The Review will engage with UEFA and all relevant stakeholders, including, but not limited to, fan groups... the finalist clubs themselves, general spectators, the French Football Federation, the police and other public national and local authorities, and the stadium operator." French President Emmanuel Macron has been commenting on the situation. "I have a thought for the families who have been pushed around, who have not been able to access the seats they had paid for. This is why I hope that we can compensate them as soon as possible," Macron said in an interview with local media on Friday. "I have asked the government to clarify what happened, to determine the responsibilities and to explain them in detail to our compatriots, the British and the Spanish." Both Real and Liverpool were unhappy with the chaos. "We want to know the reasons that motivated the designation of the venue of the final and what criteria were taken into consideration, taking into account what happened that day," Real said in a statement on Friday, demanding answers. "I've spent time over the course of today reviewing some of the information and, honestly, I'm horrified by the way some men, women, children – able-bodied, less able-bodied – have been indiscriminately treated over the course of Saturday," Liverpool CEO Billy Hogan told the club's website on Tuesday. Real defeated Liverpool 1-0 to win the title in the final.