Melvin Gordon III, running back (RB) for the Denver Broncos, has expressed his determination to be the team's top option in his position despite the rise of 22-year-old Javonte Williams. "I told [Broncos general manager George Paton] when I was at the [negotiating] table, I'm not going to lay down, I'm not going to lay down," Gordon III told reporters on the first day of the Broncos' mandatory minicamp on Monday. "I've always got that mindset that I've got to go get it every year." Having joined the Broncos in 2020 as a two-time Pro-Bowler, Gordon III rushed for 986 and 918 yards in the past two seasons, ranking 10th and 11th respectively in the league. When the 2021-22 season ended, he became a free agent and said he might join a new team for a bigger workload. There was a reason behind his remarks. Broncos selected Javonte Williams from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill with the 35th pick in the NFL Draft in 2021. Williams matched Gordon III with 203 carries last season and was only 15 yards behind, though he only started in one of the 17 games. "I know a lot of people want me to take the backseat and I get it," Gordon III said. "It's been like that for a while, it was like that with the Chargers – everybody wanted Austin [Ekeler] to start. I just come out here and do my thing. Thanks for the motivation everybody, I appreciate y'all." Gordon III was brought to the NFL by the Los Angeles Chargers with the 15th pick in 2015. Having started 12 games in his rookie season, he saw his starting appearances drop to 11 in the 2019-20 season, during which undrafted Ekeler from the 2017 Class started eight times for the Chargers. He had 206 carries and 911 rushing yards in the 2021-22 season, right in between the 11th Gordon III and the 13th Williams. "I put my best foot forward every time I go out there and see what happens," Gordon III, who signed a one-year contract with the Broncos in April, said. "The goal is to make them want to play me ... Me and [Williams] are going to do it. I don't know how they're going to do the reps and all that ... I don't care how old people think I'm getting, I feel good. I've been sharing the ball since I got in the league, so this is nothing new." The Broncos were 7-10 last season, failing to reach the playoffs for the sixth straight time since they won Super Bowl 50 in 2016. The team landed nine-time Pro-Bowl quarterback Russell Wilson in a blockbuster trade with the Seattle Seahawks in March, aiming to make a change in the new season.