China on Friday deplored the European parliament for passing a resolution on Xinjiang, calling it a malicious smear and a plain lie. In the resolution on the "human rights situation in Xinjiang" passed on Thursday, the European parliament claimed that China's relevant measures in its Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region amount to "crimes against humanity" and represent a serious risk of "genocide." The resolution is a total disregard of facts and legal common sense, a malicious smear of China, a gross interference in China's domestic affairs, and a blatant violation of international law and basic norms of international relations, said Zhao Lijian, a spokesperson for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, at a regular press briefing in Beijing. "The Chinese side strongly deplores and firmly opposes it." Xinjiang-related issues are, in essence, not about ethnic group, religion or human rights, but about fighting terrorism, extremism and separatism, which is related to China's sovereignty, territorial integrity and national security, Zhao said. He said the resolution of the European parliament is purely based on the lie of the century deliberately fabricated by extreme anti-China forces, and another farce in their slander and smear campaign. However, the lie and farce can not alter Xinjiang's stability and unity, he added. Zhao urged relevant members of the European parliament to respect facts, stop using the Xinjiang issue for political manipulation or interfering in China's internal affairs, and stop using human rights as a pretext to provoke ideological confrontation. "China will continue to firmly safeguard its sovereignty, security and development interests." A spokesperson for China's top legislature on Friday also voiced firm opposition to the resolution. In a statement, the spokesperson for the Foreign Affairs Committee of the National People's Congress said China's counter-terrorism and deradicalization efforts have safeguarded the lives and properties of the people of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang, making positive contributions to the global human rights cause and anti-terrorism cause. At present, Xinjiang has entered its best period in history with social tranquility and stability, economic prosperity and development, and happy, peaceful life for its residents, said the spokesperson. Immediately after the passage of the resolution by the European parliament on Thursday, the Chinese Mission to the European Union issued its condemnation. In a statement, the mission said the allegation of genocide is a flat-out lie of the century, which is an ugly farce directed by anti-China forces. From the first national census in 1953 to the seventh one in 2020, Xinjiang's population increased from 4.78 million to 25.85 million, among which Uygur population went up from 3.6 million to 11.62 million, it said. It added, the growth rate of Uygur population is not only higher than that of the total population in Xinjiang, but also that of other ethnic minorities, even much higher than that of Han people. "Has anyone ever seen 'genocide' of this kind?" it asked.