China will introduce targeted measures to lower costs, improve supply chains and help foreign trade companies to boost trade, Vice Commerce Minister Wang Shouwen said at a press briefing on Wednesday. Wang noted that logistical efficiency has declined, supply chains are not running smoothly and surging raw material prices have impose pressure on foreign trade firms. "We must be clear about the uncertainties for foreign trade while the global economy recovery remains fragile and demand growth is still slow," Wang said, adding that rising global inflation will reduce consumer spending on foreign goods. The country's export growth slowed to single digits at 3.9 percent year on year in April, compared with the 14.7 percent growth reported in March. Meanwhile, its imports were unchanged in April compared to a year ago, improving slightly from a 0.1 percent fall in March. However, Wang believed that there's positive outlook for China's foreign trade, with easing COVID-19 disruptions, growing free trade agreement partners, and the government's supportive policies. China will improve port operations, organize more online trade fairs to help firms secure orders, lower shipping costs, offer export tax rebates, and ask banks to offer aid on issues related to currency, according to Wang. The country will also encourage credit insurance institutions to introduce more measures to help reduce risks for foreign trade enterprises. It will support high value-added products such as medicine and automobiles to expand international markets. China's position in the global industrial chain and supply chain is still consolidated, and the relocation of some industries is line with economic laws, according to Wang. He said the country will introduce policies to facilitate export returns and exchanges as soon as possible. Foreign trade of goods has recovered significantly in the Yangtze River Delta and other regions, and the goal for stable foreign trade is still well supported, according to customs official Jin Hai. Exports in May are expected to grow 8 percent from a year ago, while imports are expected to rise 2 percent, according to a Reuters poll. Foreign trade data for last month will be released on Thursday. China will also cut financing costs for the real economy, simplify the investment procedures for foreign investors, keep its currency reasonably stable and strengthen the yuan's flexibility, according to Zhou Yu, an official at the People's Bank of China. (With input from agencies)