Chinese President Xi Jinping and Greek President Katerina Sakellaropoulou on Sunday exchanged congratulatory messages on the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between the two countries. In his message, Xi said that China and Greece have always adhered to the historical perspective, and followed the trend of the times over the past half of a century. Both countries have firmly supported each other on issues related to their core interests and major concerns, adhered to the concept of openness and win-win cooperation in building the Belt and Road, and carried forward their wisdom as ancient civilizations and the Olympic spirit, said Xi. That has brought tangible benefits to the two countries and peoples, and set an example of mutual appreciation between civilizations for the rest of the international community, he added. Xi said that he attaches great importance to the development of China-Greece relations. The Chinese president said he is ready to work with President Sakellaropoulou to take the 50th anniversary as an opportunity to deepen the traditional friendship, expand practical cooperation, and promote cultural exchanges to enrich the China-Greece comprehensive strategic partnership for the benefit of the two countries and peoples. For her part, Sakellaropoulou said Greece and China have established bilateral relations of cooperation and friendship in the spirit of mutual understanding and mutual respect over the past 50 years. It is believed that the two sides will jointly work for the goal of promoting dialogue among civilizations and maintaining world peace, she added. On the same day, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang and Greek Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis also exchanged congratulations on the anniversary. Li said that China is willing to work with Greece to consolidate political mutual trust, deepen cooperation in infrastructure, shipping, new energy and other fields to take the comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries to a higher level. Mitsotakis said the solid friendship and high level of cooperation between Greece and China have set an example for all in the world, and hopes that the two countries will take the 50th anniversary as an opportunity to cooperate closely in international affairs and promote the continuous development of the bilateral relations.