The enactment and enforcement of the "Uyghur Forced Labor Prevention Act" by the U.S. serve to escalate American suppression against China under the guise of human rights, the Chinese Foreign Ministry said. The U.S. law banning imports from China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region takes effect on June 21. Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin told a regular press conference that the ban came from a lie and that imposing sanctions on individuals and entities over Xinjiang is an attempt to perpetuate the lie. He said the U.S. action wantonly disrupted international trade order and undermined the stability of global industrial and supply chains. The Americans' attempt to create forced unemployment in Xinjiang in a so-called legal form and to promote decoupling from China globally fully exposes the hegemonic essence of the U.S. to undermine human rights in the name of defending it and to break the rule in the name of preserving it. China strongly condemns and resolutely opposes this, the spokesperson said, adding the country will take strong measures to firmly defend the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese enterprises and citizens. "The U.S. side's move goes against the trend of the times and is doomed to fail," Wang said. He reiterated that the so-called forced labor in Xinjiang is a big lie made by anti-China forces, adding it is completely contrary to the fact that the cotton and other industries in Xinjiang are mechanized on a large scale and the labor rights of the people of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang are effectively protected. The Chinese Commerce Ministry on Tuesday also released a statement expressing firm opposition to the act. Such bans are not only an act of economic coercion, unilateralism, protectionism and bullying, but also damage the vital interests of companies and consumers in both countries, the Ministry of Commerce said. It also urged the U.S. to immediately stop political manipulation and fact-distorting, stop infringing on the rights and interests of the people of all ethnic groups in Xinjiang and immediately withdraw all sanctions and suppressive measures related to the region. Noting the world faces high inflation and slow growth, the Ministry of Commerce said the U.S side should contribute more to the stability of the global industrial and supply chains and economic recovery, and create conditions for deepening economic and trade cooperation.