Chinese State Councilor and Defense Minister Wei Fenghe on Sunday vowed to preserve freedom of navigation in the South China Sea area based on international law, asking the neighboring ASEAN (Association of Southeast Asian Nations) countries to stay united and prevent "some countries" from meddling on issues in the region. "Freedom of navigation has never been compromised in the South China Sea," Wei said while addressing the 19th Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore. "In fact, China benefits most from freedom of navigation. If it were hampered in the South China Sea, China would suffer the most because without freedom of navigation, China's economy would hardly grow," he added. He slammed "some big powers" of "navigation hegemony," saying that these countries have sent warships and warplanes on a "rampage" in the South China Sea. The Chinese defense chief also urged neighboring countries to "properly handle disputes" and "resolve small differences," so as to keep issues between sovereign countries and proceed in each other's long-term interests. China and the ASEAN countries launched consultations on the Code of Conduct in the South China Sea in late 2018, and the parties have been in negotiations since. Last June, China and the ASEAN countries agreed to push for an early agreement. "We countries in this region must stay vigilant and prevent some countries outside this region from meddling in the affairs of our region and turning the South China Sea into troubled waters," Wei said in his speech at the dialogue. Wei issues warning over Taiwan Wei also warned against any separatist activities seeking "Taiwan independence," stressing that China "will not hesitate to fight, will fight at all costs and will fight to the very end." "Taiwan is China's Taiwan, period. The Taiwan question is China's internal affair," Wei said. "No one should ever underestimate the resolve and capabilities of China's armed forces to defend its sovereignty and territorial integrity." The Chinese defense minister also reiterated the country's defensive military strategy, saying China has always sought peace and stability. Earlier on Friday, Wei met with his U.S. counterpart Lloyd Austin. He told the U.S. secretary of defense that Washington should view China's development and growth rationally, and called for an end to "smearing or suppressing China." A stable Chinese-U.S. military relationship is vital for the two countries, and the two militaries should avoid conflict and confrontation, Wei added. (Cover: Chinese State Councilor and Defense Minister Wei Fenghe addresses the 19th Shangri-La Dialogue in Singapore, June 12, 2022. /Chinese Ministry of National Defense)