It was a rather cruel end for Giorgio Chiellini, Italy's third most capped defender of all time. The 37-year-old, who earned over 20 major trophies during a splendid career, spent his last game of international football trying to stop seven-time Ballon d'Or winner Lionel Messi in the Finalissima, and he failed spectacularly. In a blockbuster showdown between the champions of Europe and the South Americans, the irrepressible superstar produced two brilliant assists on his record 161st Argentina appearance on Wednesday night, leading his team to a commanding 3-0 win over the underperforming Italy in front of 87,112 sell-out crowd at Wembley. The opening goal was all about Messi's unparalleled technical skills as he dribbled past Giovanni Di Lorenzo with incredible ease before laying it on a plate for Lautaro Martinez to score. The Inter Milan striker then turned provider for Angel Di Maria to chip a second. Messi was again heavily involved in Argentina's third goal as the 34-year-old evaded several Italian defenders and created space for substitute Paulo Dybala, who put the icing on the cake in what became an embarrassing one-sided affair. Chiellini, who declared before the clash that the Finalissima could be the "perfect way" to end his final appearance, was substituted at half time due to his lack of pace and composure. The veteran's disastrous performance encapsulated the whole Italian squad. Returning to the same stadium where they were crowned champions of Europe last year, Italy were bizarrely listless and lifeless. The team didn't seem to have recovered from the devastating blow of missing the Qatar World Cup. "Right now, we have to accept the result because they were in very different form compared to us. There was a big difference between the two teams," observed Chiellini. "I'm sorry, but that's part of the game. In this stadium, which gave me incredible joy last year, I'm retiring with pride." "The lads have to work with their heads down and regain the enthusiasm that they're missing right now. With enthusiasm, you don't waste as much energy and you keep a clearer head. That's the most difficult part. They'll have to find that as soon as possible," he added. In sharp contrast, Argentina were ruthless. Just months after ending their 28-year wait to win the Copa America, La Albiceleste added another trophy under their name. The victory also saw them stretch their unbeaten run to 32 matches. After the final whistle, Messi was thrown into the air by his teammates as his name echoed around the stadium. "It was a beautiful final, full of Argentines. What we experienced here was beautiful," beamed Messi, who was duly named Player of the Match after putting in a masterclass for his adoring global audience. It is 36 years since Argentina won the World Cup. If Messi could play at this level in Qatar later in the year, the prediction of them winning the most prestigious trophy in football is not far-fetched after all.