Badminton powerhouse China put on a stellar performance at the 2022 Indonesia Open championship, clinching two golds and two silvers as the showpiece event wrapped up on Sunday night. China's only men's doubles pair in Jakarta, Liu Yuchen and Ou Xuanyi defied the odds to edge past South Korean duo Choi Sol-gyu and Kim Won-ho 21-17, 23-21 to secure a well-deserved victory in a closely-fought final. Liu and Ou had come under tremendous pressure ahead of the tournament after being promoted from the reserves' list. However, the world number 75 pair proved their doubters wrong by beating every higher-ranked opponent they faced and capped off a stunning campaign with an unlikely title. The result means they are the first-ever men's doubles pair from the reserves' list to win a Super 1000 title. While Liu and Ou's triumph was unexpected, the success of China's top-seeded duo of Zheng Siwei and Huang Yaqiong in the mixed doubles was almost inevitable. The Tokyo Olympic silver medalists extended their winning streak to 20 matches by swatting aside Watanabe Yuta and Higashino Arisa of Japan 21-14, 21-16 in thrilling fashion. Zheng and Huang have already displayed their masterful offense and coordination by winning the Badminton Asia Championships, the Thailand Open and Indonesia Masters over the past few weeks. The newly minted Indonesia Open title once again reminded the world of the duo's electrifying quality and resilience. "This title means a lot for both of us," Zhang told reporters after the final. "We saw it as a huge motivation, and it showed that we have what it takes to compete with the best shuttlers. The victory will also build our confidence as a solid partnership." Earlier in the day, China's Zhao Junpeng fell short of making it a grand finish after losing 21-9, 21-10 to world number one Viktor Axelsen in the men's singles final. It was the Dane's 27th straight win this year and his 14th World Tour title. The inexperienced Zhao, who was in his first major final, had no answer to Axelsen's aggressive style in a game that lasted only 38 minutes. "I tried to come in aggressively and tried to control the drift the best way I could and try to counterattack a bit. I have a bit of experience in these finals, and today I tried to use that," observed Axelsen. "I played very well today and followed my game plan. It feels amazing; it's hard to describe how happy and proud I feel," he added. "I'm really proud of how I came through in every single match and perform over the last two weeks, it's not easy to play at this level on consecutive weeks, so I'm happy about that. "I've just tried to be consistent with what I do and what I know, what works for me, I try to improve step by step every single day, and it pays off." Zhao's compatriot Wang Zhiyi also fell at the final hurdle after slumping to a 21-23, 21-6, 21-15 defeat at the hands of Chinese Taipei's Tai Tzu-ying in the women's singles final. Despite failing to complete an upset, the 22-year-old Wang has been a revelation for China at the Indonesia Open. Exuding a maturity that belies her age, the unseeded young player managed to outclass reigning world champion Akane Yamaguchi and fellow Chinese star He Bingjiao on her way to the final. The second-ranked Tai, who eventually bounced back to win the title after dropping the first set, also heaped praise on the promising Chinese talent. "Wang played with very good ball control," she said. "I'm very happy to come out on top."