Nanzhi Quan is a traditional form of martial arts in south China's Guangdong Province. It has various hand techniques: the fist must be strong, fierce, and forceful at every step, with fewer leg techniques. It is listed as an intangible cultural heritage of Guangdong. Nanzhi Quan is the first Quan that originated in Nan Quan. Nan Quan is a general designation of all sorts of Quan in various places of south China, especially in Guangdong Province, and has a long history- its origin can be traced back more than 400 years. It is not only popular in China, but also has a great impact on Southeast Asian countries. Sun Shuji has been practicing Nanzhi Quan for almost 40 years, since he was 12, and now has his gym to teach children practicing this particular kung fu in Shantou City in south China's Guangdong Province. Ever since he started practicing kung fu when he was 4 years old, he has never skipped a day. "Your kung fu develops day by day. If you stop practicing because you are tired today, it is not kung fu," Sun shared with us his philosophy about kung fu and life. Nanzhi Quan has full and solid force so practitioners have developed muscles and strong bones which can remarkably improve the physical quality such as power and speed. To master the basic techniques, Sun Shuji practices with the Wooden dummy, does push-ups, and rings every day: All these have to be practiced to strengthen your physical fitness, and your muscles and bones can be strengthened. It also helps train your reaction skills and your endurance to fight. Practicing rings enhance your waist, abdominal, and hand strength," said Sun Shuji. Nanzhi Quan is also characterized by saving force, holding breath, giving force, and voice in turns which requires abdomen breath to help improve the functions of angiography, digestion system, respiratory system, and metabolism. “When the opponent is very powerful, I will push him away with both hands and hit him. There are many changes. You leave. You hit your elbow, and you go right in. You will be a catch if you can't go in, and this is called "King Tota"，said Sun Shuji. At that time, it was hard to make a living by just playing kung fu. So while practicing kung fu, Sun also earns his living by being a driver and doing renovation work. However, he found that Wushu is the only thing that he was interested in. Then, he worked hard to open a Wushu Gym in 2010. Now, he has more than 100 students studying Wushu with him. Sun Shuji enjoys going to the market to buy vegetables and cook in his spare time. "Learning Wushu helps you form habits. For example, your body style and stance can also be used in cooking." "And your kung fu develops day by day. Real Kung fu needs practicing little by little. Practicing martial arts makes me brave and confident." That's his attitude toward kung fu and life.