It was billed as a much-anticipated repeat of the 2018 World Cup final. But both France, who clinched the most prestigious trophy in world football at Moscow's Luzhniki Stadium, and Croatia, who still made history despite falling at the last hurdle, came into this showdown feeling they had something to prove. Didier Deschamps' side just suffered their first defeat in 90 minutes in 19 months as the world champions started this year's Nations League campaign with a disastrous 2-1 home loss to Denmark over the weekend. Zlatko Dalic's players, meanwhile, were comprehensively beaten by Austria 3-0 in an embarrassingly one-sided affair. These two wounded animals were looking for redemption on Monday night, but France and Croatia shared the spoils in Split after Adrien Rabiot's opener was canceled out by Andrej Kramaric's penalty. The draw did neither any favors; they now face an uphill battle to reach the Nations League finals. Deschamps made 10 bold changes to the side that lost their opening game, but France still struggled to create clear opportunities in a first half that included little goalmouth action. The defending champions, who missed wunderkind Kylian Mbappe due to injury, were dictating the tempo without making any inroads. In sharp contrast, Croatia proved that their humiliating defeat at the hands of Austria was just a bad day at the office. The hosts were rampant throughout the early stages and almost took the lead, but Ante Budimir uncharacteristically fluffed his lines when he hesitated to shoot in a one-on-one situation. To their credit, France raced out of the blocks after the interval and broke the deadlock through Rabiot, who unleashed a clinical shot inside the near post after a perfect pass from Wissam Ben Yedder. However, an unwanted languor settled on Deschamps' men thereafter. And Croatia duly seized their lack of concentration and urgency when Kramaric surged into the box without hindrance and was then tackled from behind by a clumsy Jonathan Clauss. The video assistant referee awarded the penalty after a lengthy review and Kramaric converted the spot kick comfortably. Croatia had chances to win the game but Nikola Vlasic's shot was heroically saved by goalkeeper Mike Maignan, and Luka Sucic wasted another glorious opportunity. France survived and have now failed to win a game immediately following a defeat for the first time since 2015. But Deschamps remained defiant. "Of course, the result doesn't fully satisfy me," he told a press conference. "But there's tiredness to factor in and with all the other matches I'm forced to make changes. This is our chance to try all the possibilities we have. We are using this competition the best we can. It's an ideal preparation for the World Cup." Croatia captain Luka Modric, who earned his 150th international cap on the night, was obviously in a better mood. "It was a phenomenal feeling, I am happy and proud of my 150th match," he beamed. "We can be satisfied with our performance. We were rewarded with the goal at the end and we need to continue like that in the hope of some more points." France next travel to Austria on Friday before taking on Croatia again next Monday. If the title holders cannot rediscover their form in time, an early exit from the Nations League is definitely on the cards. Later in the day, Denmark continued their high-flying form and now top the group on six points after Jens Stryger Larsen's late winner earned them a 2-1 win over Austria in a game delayed by 90 minutes because of a power failure in Vienna. Pierre-Emile Hojbjerg established the lead for the Danes before Xaver Schlager took advantage of some generous defending to equalize. With six minutes left, Jens Stryger Larsen stunned the sell-out home crowd with a brilliant curler that gave Austrian goalkeeper Patrick Pentz no chance.