In the week ahead, the second and third televised public hearings on the January 6, 2021 U.S. Capitol attack will be held on Capitol Hill in Washington D.C., and the 25th St. Petersburg International Economic Forum is set to take place in Russia on June 15–18 2022. Public hearings on January 6 attack on U.S. Capitol The House of Representatives committee investigating the January 6, 2021 attack on the U.S. Capitol will hold hearings throughout June that will drill into the details of what it says was a widespread plot led by former President Donald Trump to overturn the 2020 presidential election. The second hearing on June 13 is aimed at showing "Trump engaged in a massive effort to spread false and fraudulent information" despite the fact that he knew that he had lost the election. The third hearing on June 15 will focus on Trump's efforts to replace the U.S. attorney general in order to assemble a team at the Department of Justice to promote his election claims. Jeffrey Rosen, the acting attorney general at the time, is among those scheduled to testify, according to a person familiar with the matter. On June 9, the committee laid the groundwork during the first hearing for at least five upcoming hearings that will focus on the groups and people involved in plotting and staging the riot. St. Petersburg International Economic Forum to open The 25th St. Petersburg International Economic Forum (SPIEF) will be held in St. Petersburg from June 15 to 18 and Russian President Vladimir Putin is expected to deliver a speech at the forum on Friday. On June 6, Putin said in a message to the upcoming 25th SPIEF that the 2020s would be a time for his country to strengthen its economic sovereignty, Xinhua news agency reported. "The Russian economy will increasingly rely on private initiatives and, of course, will remain committed to transparency and broad international cooperation," he added. Meanwhile, Putin criticized "illegitimate" sanctions and economic policy "mistakes" of Western countries, which he said have led to "a wave of global inflation, the disruption of usual supply chains and a sharp increase in poverty and food shortages." Day by day: Monday: The 50th regular session of the UN Human Rights Council is held from June 13 to July 8; Presentation of annual report by Michelle Bachelet, UN high commissioner for human rights; Second U.S. House January 6 Committee public hearing; NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg meets with Sweden's Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson. Tuesday: French President Emmanuel Macron visits Romania. Wednesday: U.S. Secretary of Defense Lloyd Austin hosts the Ukraine Defense Contact Group at NATO Headquarters; NATO defense ministers begin two-day meeting ahead of Madrid summit; Third U.S. House January 6 Committee public hearing; The 25th Saint Petersburg International Economic Forum is held from June 15 to 18. Thursday: The second day of the NATO defense ministers meeting. Friday: Putin is expected to address Saint Petersburg International Economic Forum. Saturday: A quiet day in politics. Sunday: Second round of France's legislative elections; Second round of the presidential election in Colombia. (With input from agencies)