Chinese President Xi Jinping on Wednesday encouraged young people to contribute to building a high-level China-Africa community with a shared future. President Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, made the remarks in a reply letter to students from the Former Liberation Movements of Southern Africa Leading Cadres Workshop 2022 at the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Leadership School. A total of 120 officials of the six parties in southern Africa that co-founded the school attended the recent seminar in Tanzania, themed "New development in the new era: exploration and communication of the CPC and the six parties in southern Africa." In his letter, Xi said he was pleased to learn that they had conducted in-depth exchanges and discussions on what kind of development a ruling party should lead a country to achieve in the new era and how to achieve it. It takes generation after generation to strive for national development, national revitalization and people's happiness, said Xi, adding that building a better world requires exchanges and appreciation among different countries. He encouraged the young attendees to make something of themselves on the journey of realizing national revitalization and Africa's renaissance. Xi said that China and Africa are a community with a shared future and the hope of long-term friendship between Chinese and African peoples is pinned on the young generation. He urged them to shoulder the responsibilities and missions bestowed by the times, get engaged in China-Africa friendship and carry forward the spirit of China-Africa friendship and cooperation to build a high-level community with a shared future between China and Africa. The African officials jointly sent a letter to Xi and expressed their determination to carry forward the friendship between Africa and China and deepen the cooperation between the two sides at the end of the seminar at the Mwalimu Julius Nyerere Leadership School. The school, built by China and named in honor of the late founding father of Tanzania, was co-founded by Tanzania's Chama Cha Mapinduzi party, the African National Congress of South Africa, the Mozambique Liberation Front Party, the People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola, the South West Africa People's Organization, officially known as the SWAPO Party of Namibia, and the Zimbabwe African National Union-Patriotic Front. Read more: Xi congratulates inauguration of Mwalimu Julius Nyerere leadership school (Cover: Students from African countries learn about Chinese culture in Beijing, China, October 18, 2019. /CFP)