The Boston Celtics beat the Golden State Warriors 120-108 in an epic comeback win in Game 1 of the NBA Finals at Chase Center in San Francisco on Thursday to lead the series 1-0. The Warriors were in control of the situation in the first three quarters with a 92-80 lead, but only to watch the Celtics shoot 9-for-12 from downtown to launch a 40-16 run in the fourth quarter. Though such crazy shooting performances are rare, especially in the Finals, it didn't come out of nowhere for the Celtics. Most of them were wide open opportunities exploited by the Warriors' extra defensive attention to Jayson Tatum, who had a double-double of 12 points and 13 assists in Thursday's game, including four assists in the final quarter. Tatum, on his first NBA Finals journey, had a good taste of the Warriors' flexible defense in Game 1. They made him pass to teammates instead of scoring a ton of points by using his remarkable isolation skills in the first half. Then in the third quarter, the Warriors changed their defense on Tatum, almost encouraging him to launch individual attack. However, the 24-year-old shot only 1-for-6 from the field in this quarter. Commentator Mark Jackson on ABC said Tatum was "overthinking," and he was right. Tatum cannot match Luka Doncic or Jimmy Butler as a playmaker, but he can play as an orchestrator with his improved passing ability and excellent court vision brought by his 2.03-meter height. His major issue at this moment is the inability to switch between passing and scoring modes. That's why the rest of the Celtics must stand out to do what Tatum can't do, starting with Jaylen Brown. Brown doesn't share Tatum's playmaking ability, but he is an efficient slasher from the weak side, and, more importantly, he didn't hesitate at all on Thursday night. He scored 10 points and delivered two assists for the Celtics during the first four and a half minutes of the final quarter. As Brown's efficient individual attack drew more defensive attention of the Warriors, Derrick White, Al Horford, Marcus Smart and even Payton Pritchard were all able to shoot open 3-pointers and they made those shots to punish the opponent's decision to leave them open, even for a short moment. Horford, who finally played his first Finals game, drained six triples to set a new record for a Finals debut game. It must be pointed out that the Game 1 was not all perfect for the Celtics despite the win. Contrary to the Warriors' defense of Tatum, they tried to make Stephen Curry work himself offensively in the first quarter. Curry responded to their trick by shooting 7-for-9 from the court, including 6-for-8 behind the arc to score 21 points in the first quarter alone. Neither did Tatum or Brown gain much by attacking Curry. Though the Warriors took a head-on blow in the first game of the series and lost the home advantage as a result, they should be glad about the return of Andre Iguodala and Otto Porter Jr. who performed surprisingly well on Thursday. 39-year-old Iguodala got seven points and three assists after making a 3-pointer and finishing an athletic alley-oop. Porter Jr. shot 4-for-5 from downtown and contributed two steals for the team. Despite the Celtics' advantage on the interior with Robert Williams III, Horford and Grant Williams, the Warriors again beat them in offensive rebounds (12-7) and second-chance points (26-15). They did most of the things right in Game 1 at home and had no need to beat themselves up, especially when the opponent shot 21-for-41 at the 3-point line. As for the Celtics, judging by history, such crazy 3-point shooting performance won't be consistent. After they shot like this against the Miami Heat and Milwaukee Bucks in the previous series, the team fell into a slump on this front and stayed there for several games. And neither did Horford maintain his scoring prowess as a veteran who has averaged 11.9 points in the playoffs this season. Nonetheless, Tatum always bounced back immediately after underperformance and shooting 3-for-17 from the field on Thursday was far from his best form. He can have a good chat with Brown about how to avoid overthinking on the offensive front. Game 2 of the series will take place at Chase Center again on Sunday.