China urged Canada to refrain from any risky and provocative acts; otherwise, they will be held responsible for the serious consequences, said Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian during Monday's press conference. His remarks came after Ottawa accused Beijing last week of buzzing its military flights in the international airspace near the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) during Operation Neon. In response to Canada's provocative acts and unfriendly and unprofessional operations, the Chinese military promptly took reasonable, forceful, safe and professional measures and lodged solemn representations with the Canadian side through diplomatic channels, Zhao said. Noting that a healthy and stable China-Canada relationship serves the common interests of both sides and is also the common aspiration of the two peoples, he urged the Canadian side to respect objective facts and stop spreading false information. Canada should adopt a sound and pragmatic policy towards China and take concrete actions to restore the normal development of China-Canada relations, he added. China's Ministry of National Defense also responded to the issue on the same day. Canada's military aircraft stepped up close reconnaissance and provocations against China recently under the pretext of implementing a UN Security Council resolution and jeopardized China's national security and endangered the safety of frontline personnel from both sides, said Wu Qian, spokesperson for the ministry. The operation is Canada's contribution to a coordinated multinational effort to support the implementation of UNSC sanctions imposed against the DPRK. Wu said the Chinese military took reasonable, strong, safe and professional measures against Canada's "provocative, unfriendly and unprofessional operation." China has made stern representations to the Canadian side through diplomatic channels, he added. "China urges the Canadian side to face up to the seriousness of the situation, strictly restrain the frontline troops and refrain from any risky and provocative acts, otherwise all serious consequences arising from this will be borne by the Canadian side," Wu said. (Cover: File photo of Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesman Zhao Lijian attending a daily briefing in Beijing, China, /China's Ministry of Foreign Affairs)