The Nations League is a showpiece event vilified by plenty of pundits and fans for serving up extra fixtures in a congested schedule, but there is no denying the fact that it's a feast for the eyes as international football powerhouses were pitted against each other to entertain a global audience. In a much-anticipated tournament opener on Thursday night, Braga winger Ricardo Horta clinched a late equalizer to help Portugal, who were crowned champions at the inaugural Nations League finals in 2019, earn a 1-1 draw with last year's runners-up Spain. Spain dictated the tempo for long periods, with Barcelona's 17-year-old star Gavi providing several lung-busting runs. The youngster was heavily involved in the first goal as he surged forward with incredible pace after intercepting Joao Cancelo's flick and slid a perfect pass to Pablo Sarabia, who squared the ball for the Alvaro Morata to score. Exuding a maturity that belies his age, Gavi pulled the strings in midfield like a seasoned maestro and created another glorious chance for Carlos Soler after sidestepping several Portugal defenders. But the Valencia playmaker lost his composure and failed to beat the goalkeeper with a soft shot. Though Spain squandered a host of opportunities afterward, Gavi's talent was for all to see. "With Gavi, I have the feeling he is still unknown in Spanish football," observed Spain coach Luis Enrique. "Not only does he run and fight, defensively he's fantastic, but offensively he is good as well. He can score, shoot with both feet. He's unique." As Gavi stole the show, Portugal talisman Cristiano Ronaldo was brought on in the second half to save the day. The 37-year-old, returning from injury, looked leggy during his half an hour on the pitch after a draining Premier League season. Instead, it was the lesser-known Horta who grabbed the leveler as he took advantage of a rare defensive error by Spain and tucked home Cancelo's cross. "I feel proud," beamed Horta after making his first Portugal appearance in eight years. "I deserve to be here, and I wanted to show that." The draw ensured that Portugal did not kick off this tournament with a defeat. Next up for them is a home clash with Switzerland, who suffered a 2-1 loss to the Czech Republic earlier in the day. The Czechs will aim to continue their high-flying form as they host Spain on Sunday. Elsewhere, Manchester City's new signing Erling Haaland sent a reminder of what he will bring to the English champions next season when he scored the winner for Norway as they began their Nations League campaign with a 1-0 win over Serbia. Receiving a clever pass from Arsenal's Martin Odegaard, Haaland provided the most exciting moment of the intense showdown after netting from close range with his mesmerizing left foot. The 21-year-old has now scored nine goals in his past six international games.