Andy Murray plans to be back at Wimbledon next year despite suffering a second-round defeat to John Isner on Wednesday - his earliest-ever loss at the All England Club. The two-time champion, 35, struggled to tame the giant American's serve, failing to break once in the match on Centre Court and going down 6-4, 7-6 (7/4), 6-7 (3/7), 6-4. The British star has a stellar record at his home Grand Slam, winning the trophy in 2013 and 2016 -- his previous earliest exits came in the third round in 2005 and 2021. But the 52nd-ranked Scot said he had no plans to hang up his racquet and was in better shape than last year. "My game was certainly in a better place," he said. "Physically I felt good, barring the sort of 10 days post-Stuttgart (earlier this month), which was frustrating. "I could have had a good run here. One of the reasons why improving your ranking and trying to get seeded is important, avoid playing top players and dangerous guys like that early in tournaments." Isner unleashed 36 aces and 82 winners in total. "I am most definitely not a better tennis player than Andy Murray," said the 2018 semifinalist, gracious in victory. "I might have been a little bit better than him today." Later in the day, defending champion Novak Djokovic reached the Wimbledon third round for the 16th time. Top seed Djokovic brushed aside 79th-ranked Thanasi Kokkinakis of Australia 6-1, 6-4, 6-2 and will face Serbian compatriot Miomir Kecmanovic for a last-16 place. "I'm very happy with my performance. I started very well, solid from the back of the court," said Djokovic, who is looking to join Pete Sampras as a seven-time Wimbledon champion. "I made him work for every point and worked him around the court," added the 20-time major winner. Spanish teenager Carlos Alcaraz reached the Wimbledon third round for the first time with a straight-sets win over Tallon Griekspoor of the Netherlands. Alcaraz, just 19, triumphed 6-4, 7-6 (7/0), 6-3 and goes on to face Germany's Oscar Otte for a place in the last 16. On women's side, U.S. Open champion Emma Raducanu played down the pressure on her young shoulders after crashing out of Wimbledon in the second round. The British 10th seed went down 6-3, 6-3 against Caroline Garcia, disappointing a partisan home crowd on Centre Court. But the 19-year-old was sanguine after her defeat, saying she "didn't really have many expectations of myself". Garcia, fresh from winning on grass at Bad Homberg, hit 25 winners in an impressive display. "Emma is a huge player and in her home tournament and she proved she can do very well on the big stage," she said. "I really enjoyed playing on Centre Court, it was my first time and very special."