China and Tajikistan on Wednesday agreed to further increase bilateral trade and boost cooperation in new energy, green technology, transportation, telecommunications and other fields during a meeting between Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Tajik Transport Minister Azim Ibrohim. The meeting took place in Nur-Sultan, Kazakhstan, after the third China + Central Asia (C+C5) foreign ministers' meeting in the Kazakh capital. This year marks the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Tajikistan. Wang said the two countries have always trusted and supported each other in international and regional affairs and China is ready to make joint efforts with Tajikistan to bring bilateral cooperation in various fields to new heights for the benefit of their peoples. Bilateral trade volume increased over 100 percent year on year in the first quarter of 2022, showing strong resilience, he said. China is willing to explore new areas of cooperation with Tajikistan and support the country in realizing its main strategic goals of development in energy, transportation, grain and industrialization, he said. China supports and encourages Chinese companies to invest and do business in Tajikistan and strengthen the alignment of production capacities, the minister said. He called on Tajikistan to improve its business environment. Ibrohim described China as a "great, friendly neighbor" of Tajikistan and hailed the high degree of mutual trust between the two heads of state and the steady progress in their comprehensive strategic partnership. China has become Tajikistan's most important partner for trade and investment, he said. The Central Asian nation appreciates China's help in advancing major livelihoods projects, upgrading infrastructure and fighting COVID-19, he said. Tajikistan stands ready to participate actively in the Belt and Road Initiative and deepen all-round cooperation with China, he said, pledging that his country will provide convenience for Chinese companies doing business in Tajikistan. The two sides vowed to deepen cooperation in law enforcement on security and the fight against terrorism. Ibrohim said Tajikistan will stand together with China in fighting the "three evil forces" of terrorism, extremism and separatism. Wang said China will continue to support Tajikistan's efforts to safeguard its independence, sovereignty, security and stability. The two sides also exchanged views on issues concerning Afghanistan.