The travel market in China is showing a lot of positive signals for the summer. The policy adjustments under the normalized COVID-19 prevention and control bring hope of wide market recovery. The situation of epidemic prevention and control brings good news At a press conference on June 18, Deputy Director of the National Health Commission Lei Zhenglong pointed out that the overall situation of China's epidemic prevention and control had been stabilizing and improving in the past month. COVID-19 infections continued to decline and the number of areas with outbreaks was decreasing. In addition, since June 28, quarantine time for travelers from overseas has been cut from "14-day quarantine at designated facilities plus 7-day quarantine at home" to "7-day quarantine at designated facilities plus 3-day quarantine at home." Several regions in China have begun to relax trans-provincial flow policies gradually As the national epidemic situation continues to improve, Hainan, Jiangsu, Qinghai and other provinces have relaxed their policies for inter-provincial travel. In Hainan, people arriving from COVID-free areas need to show only green health codes for boarding, and don't require a negative nucleic acid test. As the epidemic in Shanghai is under control, many regions, such as nearby Jiangsu, Zhejiang, and Anhui, have loosened their policies on restricting movement from the city. Positive signals from the tourism market On June 25, Beijing Universal Resort, Universal Studios Beijing Theme Park, Beijing Universal City Boulevard, and Universal Studios Hotel reopened with some restrictions. Shanghai Disney Resort announced on June 28 that Shanghai Disneyland would resume operations on June 30, with ticket sales and annual pass reservations restarting from June 29. After the news was announced on June 28, the search popularity of Shanghai Disney skyrocketed on various travel platforms. According to the data from Ctrip, Disney-related search visits jumped 655 percent, and the search popularity of hotels around the Shanghai Disney Resort also rose significantly. National hotel bookings in the last week have exceeded the same period in 2019. The Qunar booking platform's national hotel booking volume in the past week was better than the same period in 2019. Changsha hotel booking volume increased by 58% compared with the same period in 2019, Haikou increased by 29%, Foshan by 20% and Chongqing by 19%, while the Sanya hotel booking volume has recovered to the level of the same period in 2019. Last weekend, airline reservations increased significantly compared to the previous weekend. The number of tickets issued for last weekend's flights to Sanya increased by 93% compared with the previous weekend, and the number of tickets issued for flights to Haikou jumped by 92%.