Mohamed Salah has been recognized by his fellow professionals as the Professional Footballers' Association (PFA) Players' Player of the Year, winning the prestigious awards for the second time after another fruitful season. With the Egyptian talisman as their most lethal weapon, Liverpool completed a domestic double, winning both the League Cup and FA Cup in a memorable campaign. Even though he could not prevent the Reds from falling at the last hurdle in both the Champions League and the Premier League, his case to claim the individual prize was a compelling one. Salah netted 31 goals and delivered 15 assists in all competitions, accounting for nearly 40 percent of Liverpool's total goals. According to stats provider Opta, the striker's expected goals figure was the highest in the league and he also ranked among the best for dribbles and open-play chances created too. The 29 year old's incredible all-round abilities had already seen him clinch the Golden Boot, Football Writers' Association Footballer of the Year, PFA Fans' Player of the Year, and Liverpool's Player of the Season. And now his second PFA Player of the Year award makes him the first ever Liverpool player to win the prize twice, first winning it in 2018. He has also become one of only nine players in history to have won two PFA Players' Player trophies, after Mark Hughes, Alan Shearer, Thierry Henry, Gareth Bale and last year's winner Kevin de Bruyne. "I have my room with trophies in a cabinet and I made sure I had space for one more," Salah told Liverpool's official website. "I always keep space and just try to imagine the trophies are going to come. This one is big. I'm very happy and very proud of that, especially because it's voted by players.""When I think about it, of course I wanted the Premier League first before anything, the Champions League as well. But as an individual it shows you a little bit that you worked really hard and you get what you worked for kind of... You win the journalists' one, you win the players' one as well, it shows you the season was really good." Meanwhile, Manchester City's 22-year-old rising star Phil Foden won the PFA Young Player of the Year award for the second consecutive season, joining Ryan Giggs, Robbie Fowler, Wayne Rooney and Dele Alli in achieving the feat. Foden has long been established as one of the most promising young talents in Europe but 2021-2022 was the season in which he finally became an influential figure in City, who reigned supreme at the top of the Premier League for the fourth time in five seasons. He was City's fourth-highest goalscorer during the last campaign, scoring nine in the league and three in the Champions League, helping Pep Guardiola's team dominate the domestic top flight with fantastic free-flowing football. "All the best players in the world have got to show consistency and keep performing at the highest level, and this year I've just tried to do that and try and help my team as much as possible - I've been really happy with my performances this year," beamed Folden. "Hopefully I can win the main award in the future, but it's all about taking small steps and improving. I always love winning individual awards, it's just nice to look at and see how far you've come so, yeah, I'm really pleased." Manchester United superstar Cristiano Ronaldo was left out of any individual awards due to his side's poor season, but he was included in the Team of the Year, with three City players Kevin De Bruyne, Bernardo Silva and Joao Cancelo also making it in. The unstoppable Salah was joined by Liverpool teammates Sadio Mane, Thiago Alcantara, Virgil van Dijk, Trent Alexander-Arnold and goalkeeper Alisson Becker in the team.