China stands ready to provide more timely assistance to Afghanistan based on its needs and expects the country to stay united to overcome the recent earthquake disaster and rebuild homes as soon as possible, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said Monday. He was speaking during a phone conversation with Acting Foreign Minister of the Afghan Interim Government Amir Khan Muttaqi, the Chinese foreign ministry said. Wang again expressed condolences to Afghanistan over the earthquake and said that as a friendly neighbor and sincere friend, China empathizes with the Afghan people at a difficult time. He added that various forces in China, from the central and local governments to social organizations and enterprises, have worked overtime to deliver emergency humanitarian assistance to Afghanistan and help the Afghan people. According to Wang, the first batch of tents, blankets and other supplies are being delivered by chartered planes, and cash and other relief supplies will follow as soon as possible. Chinese enterprises in Afghanistan have also taken action, and relief supplies are on the way to the disaster area, he added. For his part, Muttaqi thanked China for its condolences and assistance regarding the recent disaster in Afghanistan, saying that the aid fully reflects the traditional friendship between the two countries and has greatly benefited the Afghan victims. He added that Afghanistan has always been committed to developing friendly relations with China in various fields, and will always adhere to the one-China policy. A magnitude-6.1 earthquake hit southeastern Afghanistan last Wednesday, leaving at least 1,500 people dead and over 3,000 homes destroyed. The Chinese government has decided to provide 50 million yuan (about $7.47 million) worth of humanitarian aid to Afghanistan. The food support promised by China has arrived in Afghanistan and is being distributed quickly. China seeks no self-interests in Afghanistan China have never interfered in the country's internal affairs, nor sought self-interest or a sphere of influence in Afghanistan, Wang told Muttaqi. China's policy toward Afghanistan is clear, firm and stable, the Chinese foreign minister said. "China always respects Afghanistan's independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity, respects the independent choices made by the Afghan people, and respects its religious beliefs and ethnic customs." Wang also said that China and Afghanistan will hold the second meeting of the working-level contact mechanisms on humanitarian assistance and economic reconstruction, expressing the hope that both sides will steadily advance pragmatic cooperation in areas such as people's livelihoods, the economy and trade, agriculture, mining, interconnectivity and capacity building. He called for implementing the consensus reached at bilateral meetings and the outcomes of multilateral meetings regarding Afghanistan, such as the Tunxi Initiative. Wang believes that the Afghan side will take concrete measures to resolutely combat all terrorist forces including the East Turkestan Islamic Movement, and strengthen the security and protection of Chinese citizens and institutions in Afghanistan. China will continue to play a constructive role, support Afghanistan in the effort to build a broad-based and inclusive government, and to exercise moderate and prudent governance as well as upholding justice for Afghanistan in multilateral fields such as the United Nations and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), he added. Wang urged efforts to push for the implementation of the outcomes of the third foreign ministers' meeting among the neighboring countries of Afghanistan, and further build consensus among regional countries in supporting Afghanistan's stability and reconstruction. Muttaqi also noted that Afghanistan fully understands China's security concerns and is willing to make joint efforts with China to combat terrorism. Afghanistan hopes to strengthen cooperation with China on international occasions, such as in the SCO, and welcomes China playing an important and positive role in Afghanistan's peaceful reconstruction, he added. (With input from Xinhua)