Shanghai Disneyland will reopen to the public on Thursday as the latest COVID-19 resurgence is under control in the commercial hub, according to an official announcement. The resort will start to sell tickets on Wednesday for the first time since it was closed in March when cluster infections of the Omicron variant were found in the city. It was the biggest virus flare-up in China since the initial outbreak in 2020. "We are excited to welcome you back to a place full of happiness and wonder," said Joe Schott, president and general manager of Shanghai Disney Resort. The theme park will resume operation with controlled capacity and enhanced health and safety protocols, and a limited number of tickets will be sold daily, the announcement noted, asking guests to make online reservations prior to their arrival. Reservation for Shanghai Disneyland Annual Passes will be available starting Wednesday as well. In order to ensure successful admission into the theme park, all Annual Pass holders will be required to make an advanced reservation for their visit date through the resort's official online channels during the initial reopening phase. The daily operating hours of Disneyland can be checked on the resort's official app. Visitors entering the resort will be required to present a green Shanghai health QR code and a negative nucleic acid test report within 72 hours. The resort said it will continue to implement strict epidemic control and prevention measures, with new additional measures and operational changes in accordance with guidelines from local authorities. Visitors must wear masks at all times, indoors and outdoors, except when eating. Remarkable progress has been made in China's COVID-19 containment work, as the resurgence of the infection is easing. China reported 25 new local COVID-19 infections on average daily from June 20 to 27, according to the National Health Commission. Beijing as the capital of the country also eased its COVID-19 curbs after it put down local flares-ups in recent months. The Universal Beijing Resort reopened on June 25 after being closed for nearly two months. The resort requires all visitors to show a negative COVID-19 test taken within the past 72 hours and masks to be worn at all times. (With input from Xinhua)