Editor's note: Hong Kong stands tall in 2022. Not only is it the 25th anniversary of the Hong Kong SAR, but is a time when the city beat its fifth pandemic wave. Kenneth Fok Kai-kong, JP, member of the National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference and Legislative Council of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, shares his thoughts on the cooperation between the mainland and Hong Kong against COVID-19, changes in Hong Kong throughout the past 25 years, and the strengthened communication between youth from Hong Kong and the mainland. The views expressed in the video are his own and not necessarily those of CGTN. CGTN: The Hong Kong SAR marks its 25th anniversary this year. What do you think are Hong Kong's milestones in the quarter of a century? Fok: Well, (in) the past quarter of a century, we have been through a lot. I think, a lot has happened in the past 25 years, when it was first returned to the Chinese mainland. I think it's (a) very good time, because China has experienced tremendous growth as a whole from the late 90s to the early 2000s, and Hong Kong really benefited a lot in terms of business, in terms of integration, in terms of, say, CEPA which was enacted in the early 2000s, (and) a lot of much more exchanges between Hong Kong and the mainland. And before the return, the exchanges were very limited and very little. But we saw a big surge in corporations between both sides now. But as we can say, as facts tell us, actually, from the early 2010s, Hong Kong has slowly become much more political. Every issue is being politicized. And since 2012 to 2014, and then eventually the riots in 2019, and now COVID-19, Hong Kong has really been through a tough time, both politically and also on the business front for the past 10 years. So, (from) the way I see it, the pendulum is swinging again. Now that we are greeting the 25th year of the return to the mainland this year. It's time to start again the close cooperation between Hong Kong and the mainland, but more importantly, to do it together and face the international community together in unity in terms of business and also other cultural exchange and other issues as well. I think the level of cooperation is different. Before it used to be, you know, within each other. Now we should be hand in hand going out to embrace the new future. CGTN: Also as an international financial hub, should Hong Kong follow the COVID-19 policy adopted by Singapore? Fok: Well, I think it's very interesting. A lot of people compare Hong Kong with Singapore, simply because of (their) size and population. I mean, (in) Singapore, there are policies and experiences that we should definitely watch out of. And I'm sure there are also very good policies that they implement (and) we can learn from. But I think specifically when you say about COVID-19, it's very different. The situation that we are in and the situation that they are in are totally different. And I would say that we are in a much better position, because we have the support of the Chinese mainland, and Singapore doesn't. It needs to open up. Otherwise it doesn't have any resources. So, this is what they've chosen the path to take. But for Hong Kong's policymakers, we have to think about the bigger picture and how it affects Hong Kong not only, and also the mainland, in Shenzhen, Guangzhou or the mainland as a whole. In terms of a health policy, there has to be clear communication between us and also different authorities in the Chinese mainland. This has to happen. We have to fight the virus as a whole. And as we understand, China is a huge country with different disparities across our nation, so I think we have to be more careful in dealing with COVID-19 and health crisis, and we have to put the lives and livelihood of our citizens in first place. In terms of this, I think it's much more important to think of the bigger picture here and not simply just compare with other people's (policies), and say what's best. CGTN: How can friendlier ties be forged between the youth from Hong Kong and the mainland? Fok: I think these are practical issues about exchanges and opportunities. I think now we are trying to push for more meaningful exchanges between youth from Hong Kong and the mainland (with) using more (of) their language and their interests. And one area that I see has great potential – sports and culture. I've spoken to a lot of young people. They really want to have a common language; they really have a lot of common interests. Can we organize more programs (and) more events for people of different backgrounds to join? I think this is something that's meaningful, and Beijing has also, I guess, embraced this idea by giving us a lot of Greater Bay Area-themed events, such as the (National Games of China) in 2025. That's a great platform for young people, sportsmen or not, to join in something special that we do it together. Secondly, it's about opportunities, because if you have just one event, you go to the mainland; you learn (from) new friends, and you come back. But secondly, I think more important, where do you find your path in your career? I think Hong Kong is a small place. Hong Kong has a lot of opportunities, but I think our young people should look further and broader, and gain more experience besides Hong Kong. So, I think how they can go over the border to the Greater Bay Area or even elsewhere to seek their opportunity, to seek their career path. I think it's also interesting. I mean now, up to today, the latest statistics for Hong Kong Form 6 students studying outside of Hong Kong, the mainland is still the top number. It's the largest out of all the other countries and regions. So, you know, I think this exchange is getting more and more, and more multi-leveled. It's not just about simple events anymore. They're studying in the mainland. They're working there. They're starting a family there. So (there're) a lot of things that we need to do to enable that to happen. For example, if you were to work in the mainland, and you start a family; you find a wife, and you have kids; then you have to sort out the kids' education. This is what we're doing in the GBA now. School for Hong Kong (Children), for example, there are different curriculums. So, these are the practical things that we need to think about, when we talk about exchanges and integration. I think it's a lot of work to be done in the next 10 years. Managing editor: She Ziyi Video editing: Liu Shasha Graphic designer: Du Chenxin Executive producers: Bi Jianlu, Zhang Peijin Supervisor: Mei Yan (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)