In the upcoming week, Chinese State Councilor and Minister of National Defense Wei Fenghe will attend the 19th Shangri-La Dialogue, held from June 10 to 12, and deliver a speech on "China's vision for regional order." Also next week, the U.S. will host the Summit of the Americas in Los Angeles, with "the basic goal of strengthening hemispheric solidarity." Chinese defense minister to attend Shangri-La DialogueChinese State Councilor and Minister of National Defense Wei Fenghe will attend the 19th Shangri-La Dialogue and visit Singapore from June 8 to 12, China's Ministry of National Defense announced in a press release on May 31. Wei will speak on "China's vision on regional order," in which he will discuss China's policies, ideas and concrete actions in practicing true multilateralism, safeguarding regional peace and stability, and promoting the development of a community of a shared future for mankind, according to China's Ministry of National Defense. He will also meet with the heads of delegations to exchange views on the international and regional situation and bilateral security cooperation. The first in-person meeting between Wei and U.S. Defense Secretary Lloyd Austin may also be possible, as the United States has announced that Austin will attend the event. The event did not take place in 2020 and 2021 because of the COVID-19 pandemic. The 2022 summit of the Americas From June 6 to 10, the U.S. will host the Summit of the Americas in Los Angeles, with "the basic goal of strengthening hemispheric solidarity." U.S. President Joe Biden will seek regional consensus on a new economic agenda to build on existing trade agreements with Latin America and present a plan to tackle increasing migration and climate change when he hosts the Summit of the Americas, senior U.S. officials said on May 30. Summit preparations have been clouded by the threat of an embarrassing boycott by some regional leaders, including Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, if Cuba, Venezuela and Nicaragua are excluded. Day by day Monday: UN nuclear watchdog IAEA holds quarterly Board of Governors meeting; Summit of the Americas is held from June 6 to June 10. Tuesday: French President Emmanuel Macron meets Portuguese counterpart Antonio Costa. Wednesdays: Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov visits Turkey. Thursday: Public hearing of the U.S. House January 6 committee. Friday: Shangri-la Dialogue security summit is held from June 10 to June 12; the 23rd anniversary of the end of the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia. Saturday: "March for Our Lives" protests against gun violence across the U.S. Sunday: French legislative election; Chinese Minister of National Defense Wei Fenghe delivers a speech at the Shangri-la Dialogue security summit (With input from agencies)