China launched the Shenzhou-14 crewed spaceship on Sunday, sending three taikonauts for a six-month mission to help complete the construction of the country's space station in orbit. The Long March-2F Y14 carrier rocket, carrying the spaceship, blasted off at 10:44 a.m. Beijing Time from the Jiuquan Satellite Launch Center in northwest China. About 577 seconds later, the spaceship separated from the rocket and entered its designated orbit, with the crew members in good condition. The China Manned Space Engineering Office (CMSEO) declared the launch a complete success. The three taikonauts – Chen Dong (the commander), Liu Yang and Cai Xuzhe – will help build the space station into a basic three-module structure, consisting of the core module Tianhe currently orbiting the Earth and the upcoming two lab modules Wentian and Mengtian. A send-off ceremony for the trio was held on Sunday morning at the launch center. In about 6.5 hours, the spaceship will conduct fast and automated rendezvous and docking with the radial port of the core module Tianhe, forming a complex with Tianhe and the two cargo vessels Tianzhou-3 and Tianzhou-4. At present, the complex of Tianhe, Tianzhou-3 and Tianzhou-4 is in normal condition and ready for the rendezvous, docking and the entry of the taikonauts, according to Lin Xiqiang, deputy director of the China Manned Space Engineering Office (CMSEO). Tasks ahead for Shenzhou-14 taikonauts The Shenzhou-14 manned mission is the second flight (following the Tianzhou-4 cargo mission in May), and the first crewed mission in the construction phase of China's space station. The tasks for the three-member crew will be the most complicated and challenging so far, according to Huang Weifen, chief astronaut system designer of the Astronaut Center of China. During their six-month stay, they will welcome two lab modules – Wentian and Mengtian, the Tianzhou-5 cargo spacecraft and the Shenzhou-15 manned spaceship to dock with the core module, and rotate with the Shenzhou-15 crew in orbit before returning to Earth in December 2022. Wentian is scheduled to arrive in July, Mengtian in October, and then the Tianzhou-5 cargo craft and the Shenzhou-15 crewed spaceship later this year. They will enter the two lab modules for the first time, helping make the environment suitable for the taikonauts' stay and install a dozen of scientific experiment cabinets in the two modules. They will exit from the Wentian lab module for the first time to carry out extravehicular activities. They will also give science classes from the Wentian lab module for the first time, according to Huang.