Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Monday stressed that China has always been committed to promoting global development through cooperation, adhering to true multilateralism, upholding the spirit of open and inclusive partnership, and sharing its own development experience. Wang made the remarks via video link at a press conference during which the Global Development Report was released. Wang said that the Global Development Report outlines the progress made and challenges in the implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. It points out that the world should focus more on development cooperation and global partnership building, embrace digital and green transformation, and achieve common sustainable development for mankind. Based on the useful experience accumulated by China and other countries around the world, the report also puts forward policy recommendations for the implementation of the 2030 Agenda from eight aspects, he added. The Chinese foreign minister noted that the report is a key measure for China to implement its Global Development Initiative. He said that China is ready to work with all parties to implement the initiative, accelerate the implementation of the 2030 Agenda, and build a community of global development. "Development is the eternal theme of human society and an important yardstick for the progress of the times," Wang stressed. The cause of global development has made progress with the joint efforts of all parties, but it also faces challenges unseen in a century, he said. Wang pointed out that the outlook for the world to achieve sustainable development goals on schedule has clouded due to factors including the COVID-19 pandemic, regional conflicts, major-power wrestling and reverse globalization. The process of global poverty reduction is suffering serious setbacks, development issues are getting increasingly marginalized on the international agenda and developed countries' aid obligations are far from being met, he said. Meanwhile, China's Global Development Initiative is facilitating the return of development issues to the core international agenda, paving a "fast track" for development and providing an effective platform for all parties to dock development strategies and deepen practical cooperation, Wang said. He said China attaches great importance to achieving common development and has taken the lead in formulating its national plan on the implementation of the 2030 Agenda.