Sunday, June 19, marks this year's Father's Day. People all over the world express their gratitude or longing for their fathers on this occasion; Chinese artists are no exception. Veteran artist Han Meilin, also known as the "Father of Fuwa" as he designed the mascots for the Beijing 2008 Summer Olympics, has created a series of ceramic artworks for the special day. Dubbed "Hard Warmth," the set comprises of several ceramic cotton jackets made in traditional style as well as different shapes and sizes. Han said that he was inspired by the saying in Chinese that "a daughter is like a cotton jacket that always brings warmth to her father's heart." The artist noted that unlike motherly love, which is more expressive and delicate, a father's love is more restrained but equally touching. These ceramic jackets appear to be soft and warm, but when holding them in our hands, their weight and solid texture will make us feel safe at heart, just like a father's love which is solid like a mountain and is always there to bring shelter to their children. In addition, the cotton jackets featuring traditional Chinese knots add a nostalgic feel to the artwork. Han Meilin is one of the most outstanding artists in China as he is versed in many different art forms including painting, sculpture, porcelain, design and calligraphy. He has been constantly absorbing the essence from traditional Chinese culture and crossing over different art forms. His artwork "The Sealed Book" is an excellent example. In "The Sealed Book," Han has recorded tens of thousands of ancient characters and symbols from bones, stone carvings, rock paintings, ancient pottery, bronze and other cultural relics. His passion for China's profound cultural legacy is closely linked to his life experience. Han Meilin was born in 1936 in east China's Shandong Province. In the 1970s, Han started traveling across the country, drawing inspirations from folk art and also striving to rejuvenate ancient crafts. Throughout his journey, he's undergone his artistic explorations with traditional practices like paper-cutting, wooden sculpture, indigo dyeing and cloth art. Today, Han ranks among China's leading masters of arts and crafts. He's known for his unique style of Chinese ink and wash painting. Now in his eighties, Han is still bursting with creative energy, exploring new mediums of art. He said that there are no boundaries in art; age and experiences have empowered him to be his best.