Cargo volumes of Shanghai's shipping ports and air transportation have rebounded to more than 90 percent of their normal levels over the past week as the city restored production after experiencing a COVID-19 resurgence. More companies have resumed operation since Shanghai accelerated resumption of normal production and daily operations from June 1. A staff member at a leading shipping company told Shanghai Securities News on Monday that his company is receiving 2,500 twenty-foot equivalent units (TEUs) a week while more cargos are waiting for shipment. "Judging from the current momentum, there's no doubt that [cargo transport] will exceed 10,000 TEUs in June," he added. Mainly operating Southeast Asian shipping lines, he told reporters that he managed around 4,000 TEUs in April, a big dive from 14,000 during the same month last year. However, he added that he has witnessed an obvious rebound by now. The Shanghai Port's daily container throughput exceeded 119,000 TEUs over the past week, while the daily export declaration volume at Shanghai's Yangshan Port surged more than 50 percent to 11,000 during the period. The container throughput of the Shanghai Port stood at 3.41 million TEUs in May, an average daily increase of 7 percent from April, indicating stronger recovery momentum at the world's largest container port. China has taken various measures to safeguard smooth operations at the ports, including ensuring round-the-clock operations, unclogging waterway transportation and using technology to improve the efficiency of logistics services. Average daily cargo flights exceeded 200 at Shanghai Pudong International Airport during the three-day Dragon Boat Festival holiday that ended June 5, and rebounded to pre-outbreak levels. Shanghai is recovering from a wave of COVID-19 after adopting strict virus containment measures for two months. The city has sped up work resumption across different industries. Read more: Shanghai to revitalize economy by supporting SMEs as containment measures lifted