The Golden State Warriors beat the Boston Celtics 107-88 in Game 2 of the NBA Finals at Chase Center in San Francisco on Sunday to tie the series 1-1. The Warriors bounced back perfectly after losing Game 1. They entered the fourth quarter with a 23-point lead (87-64) and shut the Celtics down. One of the biggest changes coach Steve Kerr made on Sunday night was the defense on Jayson Tatum and Jaylen Brown. Though the two combined to shoot 8-for-14 from downtown in the first half, the Warriors didn't trap either of them in most possessions. They were willing to test how much the Celtics' star duo could produce offensively by themselves rather than allow them to get the rest of the team involved. When the Celtics won Game 1 on June 2, they had five players score in double digits, including four in the starting lineup. By contrast, as the other three starers next to Taum and Brown, Al Horford, Marcus Smart and Robert Williams III combined to score no more than six points in Game 2 on Sunday. The role players' inability to crack the opponent's defensive line was behind the Celtics' offensive underperformance in the third quarter, during which the team got only 14 points. Both Tatum and Brown cooled down in this quarter to shoot 2-for-7 from the field in this quarter while the rest of the team shot worse 2-for-10. Horford understandably failed to score after posting up against Kevon Looney and Klay Thompson, but it's still surprising to see him stopped by Stephen Curry, who is 12 centimeters shorter and 25 kilograms lighter than him, under the hoop. Curry’s defensive efforts made enough time for Otto Porter Jr to arrive for help defense. In the end, Horford chose to pass to a teammate but watched the ball stolen by Porter Jr. That was one of the 15 steals delivered by the Warriors and one of the 18 turnovers committed by the Celtics in Sunday's game. Though the Warriors were not in their best offensive form as Klay Thompson shot 4-for-19 from the floor, including 1-for-8 behind the arc, the team scored a lot of easy points in transition exploiting the opponent's massive turnovers. Of course, the Warriors' victory wouldn't have happened without the excellent performance of Curry and Jordan Poole. Having struggled for multiple games, Poole drained five triples on Sunday night, including making the logo shot at the end of the third quarter to spread excitement all over Chase Center and blow away the last fighting will of the Celtics. Curry's performance was even more exquisite. The Celtics continued to switch in guarding his screen plays with teammates and prepared quick help defense when Curry drove to the free throw line. Instead of taking tough shots, Curry either directly found teammates who cut in along the baseline for open shots or passed to Draymond Green for secondary assists that helped Looney shoot 6-for-6 under the rim. The Celtics altered their defense on Curry in the third quarter by trying to keep him from entering the paint. However, they overdid it as Curry's defender chose to go around, instead of beating the screen, and the screener's defender stayed behind, instead of stepping forward to deflect his shooting. As a result, Curry made three triples in the quarter to contribute 14 points for the Warriors. In Sunday's victory, Curry extended multiple records of his related to 3-point shooting in the postseason. He has shot 1.361 and made 544 triples in the playoffs, both the most in history; he has made at least one 3-pointer in 130 playoff games and at least two in 36 consecutive games, both the longest streaks in history; and this was the fourth time for Curry to make at least five 3-points in one playoff game, also the most in history. The Celtics are returning to TD Garden in Boston for Game 3 and Game 4 of the Finals on June 8 and June 10 respectively. Nonetheless, playing at home won't change the fact that the team doesn't have a traditional orchestrator. Tatum should learn the lesson from Sunday's loss that he needs to make the Warriors double-team him by destroying every defender in isolation before considering playmaking. He scored 21 points in the first half of Game 2, which was not bad, but not good enough change the defense on him. As for the Warriors, they need to keep doing what they did right. For example, Gary Payton II came back from injury in Game 2. He filled the role of Andre Iguodala with better athleticism and energy. Green was not productive in scoring, but his aggressiveness was necessary on the offensive front, which earned him seven free throws on Sunday night, the same as Curry.