Global development has long been a part of China's reform and opening-up strategy. Beijing has begun considering how to understand the road to a sustainable future better. A new report sets out to do just that. "The Global Development Report analyzes the progress and challenges in implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development," Wang Yi, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister, made an online speech during the launching ceremony on Monday, adding that the report renews the focus on development cooperation and the building of global partnership, embraces digital revolution and green transformation, and realizes the sustainable development of mankind. In 2021, Chinese President Xi Jinping proposed the Global Development Initiative to call for faster implementation of the 2030 Agenda, and the report touches on what exactly the initiative has achieved in the past year. "Receiving warm responses from the international community, the initiative is channeling more resources toward development assistance and building platforms for project cooperation to drive progress in eight priority areas, such as food security and climate change," said Zhao Changwen, president of Center for International Knowledge on Development. Zhao also noted the significance of staying committed to real multilateralism and strengthening cooperation with the United Nations. "China's role in promoting the implementation of the 2030 Agenda is significant," said Stephen Bainous Kargbo, representative & head of the Regional Office in China of the United Nations Industrial Development Organization. "It's open. It's inclusive. It's inviting different players, and it's real to work through the multilateral platform," Kargbo told CGTN. The report also offers policy recommendations for more sustainable development in areas such as poverty reduction and increasing financial support for developing countries, to ensure no country is left behind. Read more: China publishes Global Development Report