While promoting the rule of law under the "One Country, Two Systems" principle, the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR)'s advantages in legal services and its role in the construction of foreign-related rule of law of the country were praised and stressed by officials at a symposium on foreign-related legal affairs. Thanks to the implementation of "One Country, Two Systems" and adherence to the Constitution and the HKSAR Basic Law, Hong Kong has enjoyed stable development, according to Chinese Vice Foreign Minister Xie Feng. Xie made the remarks at the symposium commemorating the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland, which was held both offline and online on Thursday. Around 130 officials, experts and scholars from the Chinese mainland, Hong Kong and Macao special administrative regions participated in the event, which was jointly organized by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Shenzhen University. During his remarks, Xie called for Hong Kong to continue attracting international law organizations to establish branches in the region and hold more legal seminars to help the region become an international center for legal and dispute resolution services in the Asia-Pacific Region. Xie also encouraged Hong Kong to more actively integrate into the development of Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, serve the overall situation and major strategies of the country with legal expertise, and jointly promote the construction of the rule of law concerning foreign affairs in the new era. Hong Kong Chief Executive Carrie Lam said at the symposium via video link that the rule of law is fundamental to Hong Kong, and the Constitution and HKSAR Basic Law are the cornerstones of Hong Kong's prosperity and stability. Acknowledging that rule of law is the advantage of Hong Kong, Lam noted that Hong Kong has a sound legal foundation and a large pool of talented people, which will help the country improve the rule of law concerning foreign affairs. "With the full support of the central government, Hong Kong successfully held the annual meeting of the Asian–African Legal Consultative Organization (AALCO) last year and established the AALCO Regional Arbitration Center in Hong Kong," said Lam. "In the future, the HKSAR government will continue to firmly adhere to the principle of 'One Country, Two Systems' and further integrate itself into the overall development of the country to embrace an even brighter future."