The Tarim Desert Highway, which traverses the Taklimakan Desert in Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region, has been turned into a zero-carbon one, thanks to a transformation project completed earlier this month for the irrigation system along its shelterbelt. After the transformation project, shrubs along the highway are now irrigated with the help of solar power-fueled pumps, instead of diesel ones. The project is estimated to cut diesel consumption by about 1,000 tonnes and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions by 3,410 tonnes per year, according to PetroChina's Tarim oilfield branch, which is in charge of the project. The Tarim Desert Highway was completed in 1995. Cutting through China's largest desert, it reduced the distance from the regional capital Urumqi to Hotan by 500 km. However, it was no easy task to build and maintain a highway in the Taklimakan, the world's second-largest shifting-sand desert. In 2005, a 436-km-long shelterbelt was planted on both sides of the highway to protect it from being swallowed up by sand, and 109 well stations were built for irrigation. Eighty-six of the well stations were powered by diesel fuel. They were also unable to provide continuous energy. In January this year, PetroChina's Tarim oilfield branch launched the transformation project, which sought to alter all the diesel power generators into photovoltaic power-driven ones. In addition to the diesel consumption and CO2 emissions reduced with the help of the project, CO2 captured by the shelterbelt can surpass 20,000 tonnes each year. It can help neutralize the CO2 emitted by passing vehicles, thus making it a zero-carbon highway, according to the branch. The solar power generators are also equipped with energy storage facilities, which ensure a stable power supply and provide the maintenance workers with accessible electricity. The zero-carbon highway is just another example of China's bid to achieve carbon peaking by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060. With abundant new energy resources such as wind and solar energy, Xinjiang is a large-scale national clean energy base. Since its construction, the Tarim Desert Highway has facilitated transportation and boosted the livelihoods of local people. Now, the highway stands as a testimony to China's commitment to honoring its carbon goals.