The U.S.'s ideological mentality and domestic politics have prevented this year's summit from being inclusive, Carlos Aquino Rodriguez, a political analyst and researcher at the National University of San Marcos, said in a recent interview with CGTN. "All the problems were led by U.S. interests. U.S. President Joe Biden was subjected to his country's domestic politics. We know that the U.S. midterm elections will kick off soon. Showing any signal of goodwill with the left-wing governments in Latin America, especially those in Venezuela and Cuba, will certainly have a bad influence on Biden," the expert said. The U.S. should abandon the mindset of ideology and focus on real problems like immigration, inequality and trade volume expansion, he added. The Biden administration has decided to exclude Cuba, Venezuela and Nicaragua from the 9th Summit of the Americas, Reuters reported on Sunday. The reported move has prompted some countries in the region to boycott the event. Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador threatened to skip the summit unless all countries in the Western Hemisphere were invited. Cuban President Miguel Diaz-Canel said last month he would not go even if invited, accusing the U.S. of "brutal pressure" to make the summit non-inclusive. The upcoming Summit of the Americas "has failed," and the meeting is "neither a summit nor a Summit of the Americas," Sacha Llorenti, former Bolivian ambassador to the United Nations, said at a press conference last week. The debacle reflects the "decline of U.S. hegemony" in the region, where "the real integration platform" is the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States (CELAC), said Llorenti. The U.S. has no interest in promoting democracy or human rights, and "what it wants is for its conditions to be imposed and its interests prioritized above the common interests of the region," he added. The five-day summit began on Monday in the U.S. city of Los Angeles. Read more: Biden sells 'strong' economy, Americans not buying it China urges U.S. to stop hegemonic practice of excluding countries from Americas summit Latin American bloc condemns exclusions from U.S.-hosted summit (With input from agencies) (Cover: U.S. President Joe Biden speaks at a press conference in Rehoboth Beach, in the northeastern state of Delaware, June 3, 2022, /CFP)