Three-time Grand Slam champion Andy Murray reached his first tour-level final on grass since 2016 at the Boss Open on Saturday, moving past Australian Nick Kyrgios 7-6(5), 6-2 in Stuttgart, Germany. There were no breaks of serve in the opening set which the 35-year-old took following a tie-break. Kyrgios received a point penalty after smashing his racquet in response to losing the first set and was given a game penalty for unsportsmanlike conduct early in the second. A double break in the second set meant the Scot former world No.1 wrapped up victory in just over an hour and a half. "It has been a long time since the last final on grass. A lot of ups and downs, but I kept going and kept working and finally managed to get to another one," Murray said in his on-court interview. "I am proud of the effort I have put in." The 35-year-old will be aiming to clinch a ninth career title on the surface when he meets Italian Matteo Berrettini in Sunday’s final, in what will be a third meeting between the pair. The last time Murray captured a trophy on grass was in 2016 when he defeated Canadian Milos Raonic in the Wimbledon final. Earlier on Saturday, the second seeded Italian edged Germany's Oscar Otte 7-6(7), 7-6(5) to reach his first tour-level final of the season. Berrettini missed the clay season after being sidelined with a right hand injury in March. However, the last year's Wimbledon runner-up has quickly found his best level on his return this week in Stuttgart to reach a fourth tour-level final on grass. "I am really happy. Arriving at the tournament, that was the goal to reach the final," Berrettini said. "From thinking about it and actually making it is a big difference. I am happy I am here and have another chance to play another final after months without playing and after the first big surgery in my career. "This means this is my level and I have proved once again I am comfortable at this level and on this surface. I really like it here at Stuttgart." (With input from AP and ATP Officials)