China closed out the International Basketball Federation (FIBA) 3x3 World Cup with yet another memorable performance, swatting aside Lithuania 21-11 to win the women's bronze-medal game in Antwerp, Belgium. It was a brutally one-sided affair that serves as a reminder of how far China have progressed since winning the crown as dark horses when the competition was last held three years ago. The defending champions turned up the defensive pressure early and captain Zhang Zhiting capped a 6-0 run with an easy layup. With Wan Jiyuan and Wang Lili in high-flying form, China utterly dictated tempo at the encounter, depriving their opponents of a chance to stage a rally. To the Lithuanians' credit, they refused to lie down, even cutting down China's lead to seven midway through the showdown. However, they couldn't get any closer, as the Asian giants tightened the screws and finished off the win without taking their feet off the pedal. Wan led the score of the game with seven points, while Wang and Zhang contributed six apiece. China, ranked 18th coming into the showpiece event, had a run to remember as they matched their achievement at the Tokyo Olympics. The team of Wang, Zhang, Wan, and Cao Junwei began their title defense with a convincing 21-12 win over Romania but lost to Japan 17-14 in their second outing. That upset proved to be just a blip after China stunned world number one Germany 21-10 in their last group game before thrashing hosts Belgium 21-13 in the quarterfinal. Then came an agonizing 17-16 semifinal defeat at the hands of France on Sunday. China shrugged off the disappointment of their one-point loss and bounced back in the third-place match, while France picked up where they left off with a thrilling 16-13 win over Canada in the final. It was Les Bleues' first-ever World Cup trophy and their talisman Laetitia Guapo, who scored a total of 36 points, was awarded the Most Valuable Player (MVP) award. China's Wang, who was consistently brilliant over the past few days, featured on the Team of the Tournament, along with Guapo and Canada's Michelle Plouffe.