Hungary humiliated England 4-0 away to go top of their Nations League group and hand the hosts their worst home defeat for 94 years in a competition Gareth Southgate's side had hoped would be a morale-boosting warm-up for the World Cup. Southgate made nine changes from the team that drew with Italy at the weekend to give some fringe players a chance. But despite dominating possession, England created few chances. Hungary's Roland Sallai began the rout when he controlled the ball on his knee after a miscued header from John Stones before drilling past Aaron Ramsdale in the 16th minute. Sallai scored a second in the 70th minute with a perfect finish with the outside of his boot after Kalvin Phillips lost a tackle. Zsolt Nagy chipped Ramsdale and Daniel Gazdag drove from distance into the corner for two late goals that heaped pain on England. Adding to their disastrous night, England defender Stones was sent off for two yellow cards. "Tonight is a chastening experience," Southgate said, adding that "I'm not going to say that it doesn't hurt ... We've seen that you've got to be at full strength. It was an important experience for young players across this tranche of games." The result left Marco Rossi's tough Hungary side top of Group A3 on seven points, with England in fourth and bottom spot on two points. With two games left, the group winners go to the Nations League finals next June while the bottom team are relegated. Hungary did not qualify for the World Cup. In the same group, Germany are second on six points after winning 5-2 against Italy, who are third on five points. Germany equaled their biggest ever win over European champions Italy as Timo Werner scored twice in the game. An early goal by Joshua Kimmich and Ilkay Gundogan's penalty at Borussia Park put Germany 2-0 up before the floodgates opened early in the second half. Thomas Mueller scored his 44th goal for Germany on his 116th international appearance before Werner scored twice in quick succession. Italy's consolation goals came late on through 18-year-old striker Wilfried Gnonto and Alessandro Bastoni. In other games, Memphis Depay scored an injury-time winner just seconds after Gareth Bale had equalized for Wales as the Netherlands snatched a 3-2 victory. The win in Rotterdam keeps Louis van Gaal's men three points clear of Belgium at the top of Group A4, who won 1-0 against Poland in Warsaw thanks to Michy Batshuayi's diving header in the first half. (With input from agencies)