Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Wednesday urged efforts to make the system of global governance fairer and more equitable. Wang delivered a video speech at a high-level think tank for scholars from China and Russia, calling on them to contribute wisdom to boost bilateral ties' development and make the world more peaceful, safer and more prosperous. As governance, trust, development and peace deficits facing humanity continue to grow, the Chinese foreign minister pointed out the global governance system is facing unprecedented challenges. Wang said the Chinese side is willing to work with the Russian side to uphold and practice the correct view on democracy, development, security and order, and promote the development of the global governance system in a more just and reasonable direction. He pointed out the monopoly on the definition of democracy, the imposition of values, and the interference in the internal affairs of other countries under the guise of democracy and human rights go against people's shared aspiration and will never succeed. The international community should work together to promote genuine democracy that is in line with the national conditions and public opinion of each country, Wang added. Wang also called on emerging market countries and developing countries to jointly safeguard the legitimate development rights of all countries, establish a broad development partnership, help the global recovery from the COVID-19 pandemic, and achieve more robust, green and healthy development. He stressed the necessity of following a security concept that promotes common, comprehensive, cooperative and sustainable security. Humanity is a community with a shared future where all people rise and fall together and global security is indivisible, Wang said, calling for firmly adopting the vision of seeking win-win outcomes for all and taking into account the security of other countries while seeking our own security. International rules should be jointly written by all countries, and international justice should be jointly maintained by all countries, the Chinese foreign minister stressed. It is necessary to promote a more balanced global governance system that reflects the will and interests of the majority of countries, especially emerging market countries and the vast number of developing countries, he added. "We should resolutely uphold the international system with the United Nations at its core and the international order based on international law, and continuously promote the democratization of international relations," Wang reiterated. The forum, held annually since 2018, was jointly organized by the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences and the Russian International Affairs Council. This year's forum focuses on topics such as the high-quality development of China-Russian economic cooperation, green cooperation, and global and regional governance. (Cover: File photo of Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi. /Chinese Foreign Ministry)