The United States is taking provocative actions that could escalate tensions across the Taiwan Straits, for which it should and must take full responsibility, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Hua Chunying said on Tuesday. The U.S. would surely bear the responsibility and pay the price for undermining China's sovereignty and security interests, Hua added. Hua made the comments in response to U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken's remarks on House of Representatives Speaker Nancy Pelosi's potential visit to Taiwan on Monday. Blinken said Beijing would be blamed if it "tries to create some kind of crisis or otherwise escalate tensions" over Pelosi's visit, stressing that the speaker's trip plan would be entirely her decision. Hua said Blinken's remarks exposed the hegemonic mentality of some in the U.S., which is, "I can wantonly provoke you, but you cannot oppose it or act in self-defense." All institutions of the U.S. government, including administrative, legislative and judicial organs, should implement the foreign policy that the U.S. government has recognized and pledged, she said.  In the 1979 Joint Communique on the Establishment of Diplomatic Relations between China and the U.S., the United States of America recognizes the government of the People's Republic of China as the sole legal government of China, and within this context, the people of the United States will maintain cultural, commercial, and other unofficial relations with the people of Taiwan, she noted. The house of representatives, as part of the U.S. government, should strictly adhere to the foreign policy that the U.S. government has recognized and pledged, she said. It would by no means be an unofficial visit if the house speaker, as the No. 3 person in the U.S. government, travels to the Taiwan region on an American military plane, she said. Hua stressed that the one-China principle is a universally recognized norm governing international relations and the common consensus of the international community. In an attempt to use Taiwan to suppress China, the U.S. has been providing strategic support to "Taiwan independence" forces and making deliberate provocations against China, she said. The Chinese side is acting in legitimate defense after the U.S. and "Taiwan independence" forces colluded to make provocations, she added.