The test-launch of a new type of intercontinental ballistic missile (ICBM) Hwasongpho-17 by the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) strategic forces was conducted on Thursday under the guidance of DPRK leader Kim Jong Un, the official Korean Central News Agency (KCNA) reported early Friday.Kim gave a written order to conduct the test-launch on Wednesday and visited the launching ground on Thursday to personally guide the overall process, according to the KCNA report.The United States imposed sanctions on five entities and individuals in Russia and the DPRK related to the latter's missile program, the State Department said on Thursday. Commenting on the test, the 12th by the DPRK this year, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin called for a commitment to dialogue and consultation among relevant parties to resolve issues concerning the Korean Peninsula."We hope all sides will bear in mind the overall interest of peace and stability on the Korean Peninsula, adhere to the right direction of dialogue and consultation, and jointly advance the political settlement of the peninsula issue," Wang said at a regular press briefing on Thursday. The latest launch is the first time that the DPRK has test-fired an ICBM since 2017. Hours later, South Korea confirmed that, in response, it had test-fired a volley of smaller ballistic and air-to-ground missiles. According to the KCNA report, Kim said during his on-site inspection of the test that the DPRK would be "fully ready for long-standing confrontation with the U.S. imperialists." "The new strategic weapon of the DPRK would make the whole world clearly aware of the power of our strategic armed forces once again," he was quoted as saying.Talks between Pyongyang and Washington have been stalled since the collapse of a summit between Kim and then U.S. President Donald Trump in Vietnam in February 2019 due to their differences on denuclearization and sanctions relief. The United Nations Security Council will hold a meeting on issues concerning the DPRK on Friday, according to the schedule of the council published on its website. (With input from agencies) (Cover: DPRK leader Kim Jong Un watches the test-firing of an intercontinental ballistic missile at an undisclosed location in the DPRK, March 24, 2022. /CFP)