Editor's note: Anthony Moretti is an associate professor at the Department of Communication and Organizational Leadership at Robert Morris University. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily those of CGTN. You have undoubtedly heard the joke that goes like this: Older man: "Son, what is it with you? Are you ignorant or arrogant?" Younger man: "I don't know, and I don't care." Right now, far too many people in the West need to consider whether they are ignorant or arrogant as they seek to cancel the letter Z. You read that correctly. As the West continues to identify ways to demonstrate its anger toward Russia and its special military operation in Ukraine, the opportunity to go overboard is obvious. The leaders of two states in Germany have indeed gone overboard. Recently, they announced that any public display of the letter Z is verboten. According to the German publication The Local, "Anyone who brandishes the symbol at demonstrations or paints it on cars or buildings in a show of support for Vladimir Putin's war could risk up to three years in jail or a fine in Lower Saxony or Bavaria." Only about one month ago, Western nations criticized Putin and the Russian government for threatening prison sentences of anywhere between three and 15 years for anyone who spoke out against the military's actions in Ukraine. The New York Times suggested that decision was the harshest assault on news and free speech than "at any time" in Putin's time in office. Has there been even a whisper of criticism from those same nations in response to what is taking place in Germany? You and I know that answer: No. A Ukrainian politician energized the ban the Z movement by taking to social media. Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba posted on social media that "'Z' means Russian war crimes, bombed-out cities, thousands of murdered Ukrainians. Public support of this barbarism must be forbidden." Why is the West adding to its often laughable response toward Russia by seeking to ban a letter of the alphabet? The overly simplified answer is that people in the West are being told that wearing or promoting the letter Z means support for Russia, especially because the letter has been seen on multiple Russian military vehicles. Unfortunately, like many symbolic efforts, seeking to erase a letter from public consciousness will do nothing to improve the rapidly deteriorating conditions on the ground in Ukraine. It will not rein in the unfolding humanitarian crisis in Ukraine. It will not reunite families, many of whom have already left Ukraine, knowing they might never see their loved ones who remained again. But people do not want to hear that symbolism often comes up short. They are angry at Russia, and they are going to do something – anything – to show disgust with the country. However, folly has followed. Here are just three examples: The Cardiff Philharmonic Orchestra announced it will not perform Tchaikovsky's classic "1812 Overture" simply because he was Russian. Keep in mind, Tchaikovsky died in 1893. A university in Italy postponed a course about Russian writer Fyodor Dostoevsky, then quickly changed those plans after a public backlash. Dostoevsky died in 1881. Finally, Zurich Insurance, founded in 1872, has erased its logo – a blue letter Z – from its social media platforms. In a statement, the company stated, "We are temporarily removing the use of the letter 'Z' from social channels where it appears in isolation and could be misinterpreted." What top officials of Cardiff's orchestra, Milan's University of Milano-Bicocca and Zurich Insurance are showing is an embarrassing lack of strength and leadership. They are pandering to a non-existent mob that believes erasing a letter from the public's short-term memory is somehow defying Russia while offering justice to the Ukrainian people. Lost in this nonsense is the ease with which Western nations are trampling on free speech rights. We are well aware that Washington, London, Paris and other Western nations' capitals are quick to lecture Beijing about China's perceived absence of individual rights and freedoms. You certainly remember how political leaders dutifully lined up one after another to criticize Beijing for how it handled protests in Hong Kong, accusing the Chinese government of heavy-handed tactics. What does it say about a country's commitment to freedom of speech when it will throw in jail any person who dares to defy a non-existent mob? What lessons are German, Italian and Swiss officials giving the people in their countries when they seek to cut a letter from the alphabet? And exactly what does eliminating the Z actually do? I am reminded of the many times my late mother used to tell me when I was doing something illogical that I was "cutting off your nose to spite your face." I see that happening now. Think about this: If a German citizen took to the streets today holding a poster-size photo of Vladimir Putin, they would not be thrown in jail. But do that with the letter Z, and that person is soon to be behind bars. Ridiculous, right? And further evidence shows that ignorant or arrogant responses to legitimate crises serve no one. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)