At least 17 people reportedly died and 26 were injured after fights broke out in the stands during a Mexican top-flight football match between the hosts Queretaro and the reigning league champions Atlas on March 5. According to the Associated Press and multiple Mexican media outlets, Atlas players quickly fled to the locker rooms as did some from Queretaro. Other Queretaro players, including Uruguayan goalkeeper Washington Aguerre, stayed near the bench trying to calm the fans. After several minutes, some of the fights moved to the field. Some people were armed with chairs and metal bars. One fan could be seen pulling a knife to cut the nets of one of the goals. Others destroyed a team bench and some fought in the players' tunnel. Graphic footage shared online shows some bloodied fans lying motionless on the ground. "The Mexican Football Federation regrets and condemns the events that occurred this afternoon at Estadio Corregidora in Queretaro, in the match between Queretaro and Atlas," read a Mexican Football Federation (FMF) statement. "Football must be a space of healthy coexistence where any type of violence is inadmissible. We will monitor and assist in the investigation process with the corresponding instances so that those responsible are sanctioned in an exemplary manner." FMF president Mikel Arriola declared that those responsible for the lack of security in the stadium would be punished. He added that the rest of the league's games over the weekend had been suspended. An Atlas FC statement read, "Atlas FC regrets and disapproves of the events that took place in Estadio Corregidora... We request the pertinent authorities, the Liga BBVA MX and the FMF, to investigate thoroughly and reach the ultimate consequences, determining the responsibilities of those who are involved, and applying the full force of the law." Mauricio Kuri, the governor of Queretaro, insisted that contrary to some media reports, no one had died, but admitted 26 people had been hospitalized. "They were savagely injured, which is a shame and a blot on football, for these type of things to happen, in a place that should be for families to go and have fun. This is totally unacceptable," he said. FIFA also slammed the "unacceptable and intolerable" violence on late Sunday. "FIFA is shocked at the tragic incident that took place at La Corregidora stadium in the city of Queretaro during the fixture between Queretaro and Atlas. The violence at the La Corregidora stadium was unacceptable and intolerable," read a statement. "FIFA joins the Mexican Football Association and Concacaf in condemning this barbaric incident and encouraging the local authorities to bring swift justice to those responsible. Our thoughts are with all those who suffered its consequences. "Once again, FIFA would like to stress that violence should have absolutely no place in football and we will continue working with all parties to eradicate it from our game."