The Milwaukee Bucks defeated the Miami Heat 120-119 at Fiserv Forum on Wednesday to end the Eastern Conference leaders' four-game winning-streak. The Bucks trailed by 14 points (113-99) at 7:12 in the fourth quarter, and nothing seemed to be on their side. The Heat drained 21 for 40 from downtown. Tyler Herro, Duncan Robinson and Gabe Vincent buried six, five and five 3-pointers, respectively. By contrast, none of the Bucks' "Big Three," Giannis Antetokounmpo, Khris Middleton and Jrue Holiday, reached 50 percent in field goals (FGs). Antetokounmpo, particularly had to watch his move because he was playing with four personal fouls. However, the Bucks showed what defensive power of an NBA champions team looked like in the following game by containing the Heat to three for 10 in FGs with five turnovers, including a 24-second violation. Meanwhile, Antetokounmpo kept charging the rim to score eight points for the Bucks. He also created a jump ball at 9.9 seconds before tipping it to Holiday to make the game-winning jumper. "We've done it before. We did it against Boston. We were down 13 in the Christmas game (with five minutes left) and came back and won the game," Antetokounmpo said after the game. "We can't really dwell on this win. We accept it and we love it, but these games are not stopping," Holiday said. Though Antetokounmpo is two-time NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP) and has a championship trophy and one Finals MVP award under his name, the Heat still know better than anyone how to cage him. The team's choice of positioning as well as location and timing to trap the Greek Freak is epic. Antetokounmpo made his first 3-pointer in Wednesday's game, but the Heat continued to leave him open outside the 3-point line. It proved to be the right decision because he missed all of the following three triples. What should concern the Heat is the form of their franchise player Jimmy Butler. The 32-year-old shot two for 14 in FGs and missed all three triples to get only six points on Friday night. Though he still averages 21.7 points per game this season, Butler already reached career-second-worst in 3-point production (0.4) and rate (19.8 percent), which are only better than his rookie season. Harden plays like a leader in 76ers The Philadelphia 76ers beat the New York Knicks 123-108 at Wells Fargo Center on Wednesday to secure their fourth win in a row. In his home debut for the 76ers, James Harden dropped 26 points, nine rebounds and nine assists. He made sure that his team stood up to the early aggressive offense in the first half so Joel Embiid and Tyrese Maxey could take over for the 76ers to come back in the second half. Embiid had a double-double of 27 points and 12 rebounds plus four assists and two steals. Maxey drained four 3-pointers to score 25 points. The two and Harden combined 26 for 31 at the free throw line. "I feel like you can put me anywhere in the room and I can fit in," Harden said. "Here is no different. Just see what you have and try your best to fit in. Be the best James Harden I can be in every aspect." Harden was not only playing like a leader on the floor. In fact, he's also behind Maxey's explosion from the third quarter. Maxey shot two for five in FGs to get only four points in the first half. "James came up to me and asked me if I was gonna play today and I told him 'yeah,'" Maxey said. "Having guys like James, Jo, Tobias, Spence (Spencer Rivers) came up to me and talked to me a little bit too just saying I gotta be aggressive. I can't show stretches like that being passive. I gotta help these guys out and we gotta help these guys out as a team as much as possible." Maxey had 10 and 11 points in the third and fourth quarters, respectively, giving the 76ers what they needed to rally 68-46 in the second half. Other games on Wednesday (away teams come first): Charlotte Hornets 119-98 Cleveland Cavaliers Indiana Pacers 122-114 Orlando Magic Utah Jazz 132-127 Houston Rockets Sacramento Kings 95-125 New Orleans Pelicans Oklahoma City Thunder 119-107 Denver Nuggets Portland Trail Blazers 90-120 Phoenix Suns