Brazilian striker Neymar of Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) who has been under heavy criticism recently, received support from Lucas Paqueta, his teammate in the national team. "Neymar is above all a great person, a great professional, with incredible talent. He's without a doubt the best player on the Brazilian national team," Paqueta said at the press conference at the training center where the Brazilian national team is preparing for the 2022 FIFA World Cup qualifiers. PSG lost to Real Madrid 3-1 in the UEFA Champions League Round of 16 second-leg game at Santiago Bernabeu Stadium on March 9 and, as a result, were eliminated from the top European football tournament. Neymar assisted Kylian Mbappe to score the game-opener and had some magical moments, but was "not involved as much as he would have liked," according to 90min.com, which rated him 6 out of 10. After that, PSG had one win and one loss in Ligue 1, but the 3-0 loss to Monaco was ugly enough to make many PSG fans for get about their 3-0 win over Bordeaux. Neymar has only played 21 games for PSG in all events due to injury, scoring five goals and five assists, which can hardly match his annual salary of 40.8 million euros (about $44.85 million). Neither has he led the club to win any solid championships except the Ligue 1 titles since he joined PSG in 2017. Home fans understandably have complaints about him. The report of journalist Daniel Riolo this week caused a real stir about Neymar. "Neymar hardly trains anymore, he arrives in a sorry state, almost drunk," Riolo told EMC Sports. "That's the way it is, Neymar is in a spirit of revenge against PSG." Riolo also broke news about locker room trouble of PSG. "PSG are no longer a club. There is no common thread. The coach no longer exists, the president has not said a word," he added. "After such a disaster, the bolts should have been tightened. But, nothing. Neither from [sporting director] Leonardo nor from [president] Nasser Al-Khelaifi. Nothing. A total defeat." "PSG were eliminated, so the press and fans are going to criticize him for that. But he's been recovering from injury. He's getting stronger by the day, and I'm sure he's going to do a great job helping the Selecao," Paqueta said defending Neymar. When PSG brought Neymar from Barcelona in 2017, they spent 222 million euros (about $243.9 million). Transfermarkt currently values him at 90 million euros (about $98.9 million). Considering the huge number of salaries they have paid him all these years, it will not look good if PSG get rid Neymar now.