The second recovered black box has been sent to professionals in Beijing for analysis and the search will continue for more debris and remains of the victims of the plane crash, officials said at the eighth press briefing on Sunday. China Eastern Airlines flight MU5735, a Boeing 737-800, crashed into a mountainside en route from Kunming to Guangzhou and disintegrated on impact, killing all 132 people on board. The deaths were confirmed at a press briefing on Saturday, as the identities of almost all of the passengers and crew have been confirmed through DNA testing. The firefighter rescue team on Sunday searched about 3,000 square meters at the crash site, officials said. Some human remains, nine personal belongings of victims and 729 pieces of plane debris were found. The search team will remain at the site to retrieve more human remains and plane wreckage. Earlier in the afternoon, a mourning ceremony was held at the crash site. Rescuers stood solemnly in the direction of the ill-fated aircraft and observed three minutes of silence to express condolences to the victims. Other mourning activities at the search and rescue sites, funeral homes and other places were also carried out by family members of the victims with the assistance of local government staff and working groups. Yin Ping, an assigned psychologist for the plane crash, leads the psychology team giving counseling services to the family members of those who died on flight MU5735. "In traditional Chinese culture, holding a ceremony will help those who have passed move on to a better afterlife. On a psychological level, such ceremonies would help relatives totally release sad emotions. Such a release would complete part of the farewell to their loved ones. No one can do their farewells all at once, but this would be a start," said Yin. Yin said the confirmation of the status of their loved ones will help them move forward. A team of 99 psychologists has been assigned to offer help and support to the grieving family members, according to the briefing. China Eastern Airlines said it had started the insurance claims and will develop compensation plans based on communication with families. The cause of the deadly accident is not yet known. As of 12:00 p.m. on Sunday, a total of 33,777 pieces of plane debris had been discovered. Authorities have received new footage of the crash, filmed from 8 kilometers north of the crash site. Two recovered black boxes under analysis The second black box was recovered on Sunday morning, with video clips showing an orange cylinder covered in soil. The box was discovered 1.5 meters below the surface by the roots of a tree, 40 meters away from the crash site, media reported. The storage unit of the black box was intact and sent to Beijing at 1:00 p.m. The second black box, a flight data recorder, recorded about 1,000 parameters such as altitude, speed, angles and crew operations. The former black box, recovered on Wednesday, is the cockpit voice recorder. The exterior is damaged but the data storage unit is relatively complete. The device was also sent to Beijing for analysis. Investigators will "gather all the data from the two black boxes, as well as evidence from the crash site, radar data, all the communications and data between the plane and the ground, and interviews" to make an accurate analysis on the cause of the crash, Mao Yanfeng, director of the Civil Aviation Administration of China's accident investigation unit, said at the briefing. Expert: 10 to 15 days needed to decode black box of crashed plane Psychological support for victims' families and rescuers Psychological support has been provided for people in need following the crash. Yin said 99 mental health professionals had provided 1,611 counseling sessions for 357 family members of the victims, as of 12:00 p.m. on March 27. "Some family members are starting to accept the fact that their loved ones have passed away," Yin said. He advised people to offer support but to avoid disturbing the family members of the victims, who have been going through mental trauma. "We need to protect them from secondary mental damage," he added. Rescuers who have been exposed to the tragic scene for days may also need counseling. There are 432 rescuers who have received 736 counseling sessions. The rescue team helped the family members take some soil from the crash site as a way to remember their loved ones, Yin said. "They lost their family members but they won't forget," said Yin. "To help the living family members feel forever connected to the victims, the rescue team took the initiative to help the family members take a handful of soil with them." Read More: Explainer: How will flight MU5735 crash investigation be carried out?