A handful of family members competed against each other at the Beijing Winter Olympics. Family members also participated in other capacities during the games.Cheng Bin and his university student daughter Xiaoxuan served the Winter Olympics and Paralympics at the Zhangjiakou competition zone in Hebei Province. But despite being only two kilometers or about a 15-minute walk away, they did not see each other for more than two months. That period included the Spring Festival and the Lantern Festival, the most important Chinese holidays for family reunions. Xiaoxuan worked as a volunteer at the Zhangjiakou Awards Plaza. Her daily routine involved such areas as logistics, ticketing and reception and also worked outside to set the vibe during the games in temperatures that dropped to minus 20 degrees Celsius at night. "I had a very fulfilling time, and my father is a great encouragement for me mentally. I feel very happy and proud, because it is worth it," she said. Cheng, the deputy manager at the Zhangjiakou Winter Paralympic Village, was on call 24/7 for registration and security duties. "I could not hear any cheers or watch any moments of the games and award ceremonies here, but I feel so happy to be part of the Games. It is our biggest joy to encourage each other and cheer for the Chinese athletes, as they have made such tremendous achievement," he said.The Chengs' family members offered them great support during this period. Cheng said he told his granddaughter via video calls that he missed her and hoped that she worked well and finished assigned tasks. At the closing ceremony of the Winter Paralympics, International Paralympic Committee President Andrew Parsons said, "To the 9,000 volunteers; you have been the heartbeat of these Games.  Your enthusiasm energized and empowered us all. "Zhìyuànzhě, Fēicháng Gěilì. (Volunteers, very awesome.)"Thousands of young volunteers and people from all walks of life were part of the Winter Olympics, showcasing the best qualities of the Chinese people: enthusiasm, friendliness and unity.