A newly built community isolation facility (CIF) in Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) started admitting its first batch of COVID-19 patients on Tuesday. The facility, located in Tsing Yi, was open for service one day after its construction was completed on Monday. It was built within a week with the support of the mainland. The CIF is the first one to be completed since the fifth wave of the pandemic and is able to accommodate over 3,900 patients. The CIF is a combination of modular cubicles, with basic furniture and bedding, with an air conditioner, smoke detector and fire extinguisher included in each room. "The construction team has created a miracle for Hong Kong within seven days," said Carrie Lam, chief executive of the HKSAR, during her visit to the CIF on Monday afternoon. "The construction of the CIF is a test to our team in terms of resource deployment and rapid construction capability," said Zhang Ming, assistant president of the company, the construction contractor, that is building the temporary facilities. Zhang said that they had mobilized all possible resources to Hong Kong for the construction project, including sending 150 engineers and various construction supplies from the Chinese mainland. Zhang pledged that the team will put full effort into the construction of the remaining seven community isolation facilities in Hong Kong under the support of the central authorities. Lam, the HKSAR chief executive, said in a video speech earlier on Monday that Hong Kong will undoubtedly win the battle against the epidemic and return to normal under the staunch support from the country. According to Lam, the HKSAR government will step up existing anti-epidemic efforts and are currently refining the details of the compulsory universal testing to be launched in March, in order to cut COVID-19 virus transmission chains in a thorough, speedy, orderly and effective manner. The central government has also assigned a mainland construction team to build a hospital for contingency use in the Lok Ma Chau Loop area to enhance Hong Kong's treatment capability, Lam added. "The HKSAR government will continue to mobilize all available manpower and resources, and adopt all necessary measures to fight the epidemic," she said. Hong Kong reported 32,597 new confirmed COVID-19 cases on Tuesday, down from 34,466 on Monday, official data showed. From February 21 to 28, over 140,000 confirmed cases were recorded in the city.