Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Tuesday that China stands ready to elevate solidarity, friendship and cooperation with the Islamic world to a new level. Wang made the remarks while meeting with Organization of Islamic Cooperation (OIC) Secretary-General Hissein Brahim Taha in Pakistan's capital Islamabad, where he attended the 48th session of the Council of Foreign Ministers of the OIC on March 22 in Pakistan. It was the first time for a Chinese foreign minister to attend an OIC session. The OIC serves as a bridge for the development of relations between China and Islamic countries, Wang said, noting the time-honored ties between China and the Islamic world and how the two sides support each other on issues of core interests. He also reiterated China's support for safeguarding sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of Islamic countries as well as for exploring a development path suited to their national conditions. On COVID-19, Wang said China will provide an additional 300 million doses of vaccines to Islamic countries and support the OIC's member countries in Africa fighting the pandemic. He also said China will enhance bilateral cooperation in education and training sectors, and jointly hold the fifth seminar of the Chinese-Islamic civilization dialogue. On behalf of over 50 member countries of the OIC, the secretary-general welcomed Wang by saying that his attendance will further boost ties between the two sides. Expressing appreciation for China's efforts in helping Islamic countries fight the pandemic, providing assistance to least-developed Islamic countries and the Islamic Development Bank, and offering training to thousands of students from Islamic countries in Africa, Taha said Islamic countries hope to enhance dialogue and communication with China, promote mutual understanding and work together to meet challenges. The two sides also exchanged views on Palestine and Afghanistan, among other issues. China and Saudi Arabia expressed solidarity on current regional and international issues On Tuesday, Wang Yi held talks with Saudi Foreign Minister Prince Faisal bin Farhan Al Saud. The two sides reaffirmed solid diplomatic relations and expressed solidarity on current regional and international situations. Wang thanked Saudi Arabia for its objective and fair stance on issues related to China and its understanding and support for China on issues concerning China's legitimate rights and interests. China also firmly supports Saudi Arabia in safeguarding its sovereignty, national dignity, security and stability, and opposes interference in Saudi Arabia's internal affairs, supports its strategies of "Saudi Arabia Green and Middle East Green initiatives" and "Saudi Arabia's Vision 2030", and is willing to create a new all-round and high-level cooperation with Saudi Arabia, the Chinese Foreign Minister said. Faisal said that China is an important strategic and development partner and Saudi Arabia is willing to implement the consensus reached by the two heads of state, to deepen the connection with the "Belt and Road" initiative and to expand cooperation in various fields, to strengthen the leading roles with China in safeguarding the common interests of the majority of the international community and upholding international fairness and justice. On the Ukraine issue, the two sides agreed that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries should be respected and the legitimate rights and interests of each country should be of concern. The current task is to prevent an escalating humanitarian crisis and resolve the conflicts through dialogue and negotiations. The foreign ministers of the two countries stressed that all countries have the right to make their own independent decision and do not accept any external coercion or pressure. After Prince Faisal briefed Wang about the current situation in Yemen, the Chinese Foreign Minister responded that China understands the legitimate concerns of Saudi Arabia and is willing to play a constructive role in promoting the political settlement of the Yemen issue. The two sides also exchanged views on the Iranian nuclear issue and the issue of Afghanistan. China supports Egypt in making COP27 a success In his meeting with Egyptian Foreign Minister Sameh Shoukry, Wang said the two sides enjoy profound friendship and solid mutual trust, and China has always viewed relations with Egypt as a diplomatic priority in the Middle East and Africa. Last year, the bilateral trade between China and Egypt increased by 37 percent despite the pandemic, which fully demonstrates the highly complementary nature of the two economies, Wang said. The two countries have worked together to build Africa's first production line of COVID-19 vaccines, which shows their traditional friendship and enriched comprehensive strategic partnership, he added. Egypt will host the 27th session of the Conference of the Parties (COP 27) to the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC) at the end of this year. Shoukry said that he attaches great importance to China's crucial role and contribution and looks forward to strengthening coordination and cooperation with China in helping developing countries achieve their greenhouse gas emissions reduction targets. Wang said China has made important contributions to reaching the Paris Agreement and supports Egypt in making COP27 a success and ensuring that the global response to climate change moves in the right direction. The two sides also exchanged views on Russia-Ukraine conflict and agreed to respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries and commit themselves to a comprehensive solution to the crisis. Shoukry said Egypt opposes some countries putting pressure on China and stands for strengthening cooperation rather than exacerbating conflicts. China willing to contribute to peace, stability and development in Somalia In a meeting with Somali Foreign Minister Abdisaid Muse Ali, Wang said Somalia is an important country in the Horn of Africa. China supports various parties in Somalia to strengthen coordination, and is willing to contribute to peace, stability and development in Somalia and in the Horn of Africa as well, he added. (With input from Xinhua)