Iran's Supreme Leader Ayatollah Ali Khamenei and President Ebrahim Raisi on Sunday praised Iranians for their resistance against U.S. sanctions, saying that the people managed to defeat Washington's "maximum pressure" campaign. They made the remarks in their congratulatory addresses to the Iranian nation on the occasion of the Nowruz celebrations, marking the beginning of a new year in Iran. Khamenei said the "abject failure" of the U.S.'s "maximum pressure" reflected in the Iranian people's achievements in the previous year, describing it as a victory achieved in the light of their resistance, the leader's website wrote. He added that the numerous events that unfolded across the world during the past year proved the correctness of the path taken by the Iranian nation. However, he regretted that unfavorable livelihood conditions and inflation were among the most bitter issues in the year that ended on March 20. The country's economic problems can, and must be resolved, he added. As a new year tradition, Khamenei designated the new Iranian calendar year of 1401 as the year of "Production: Knowledge-Based and Job-Creating." In similar remarks, Raisi said the failure of the U.S.'s "maximum pressure" campaign has been the country's biggest achievement over the past few years, which was made thanks to the Iranian people's resistance, according to the Iranian presidency's website. The president added that his administration also promised not to tie the economy's fate to the 2015 nuclear deal, formally known as the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action (JCPOA), and worked to lift and neutralize the U.S. sanctions. Iran signed the JCPOA with world powers in 2015. However, former U.S. President Donald Trump pulled Washington out of the agreement in May 2018 and reimposed unilateral sanctions on Tehran. Since April 2021, eight rounds of talks have been held in Vienna between Iran and the remaining JCPOA parties, with the United States indirectly involved, to revive the deal. Read more: U.S. says 'close to deal' with Iran on reviving nuclear pact Wang Yi: China supports Iran in defending legitimate rights, interests