The Institute of Psychology under the Chinese Academy of Sciences released a report in March 2021 showing that nearly one-quarter of the country's teenagers are suffering from depression, of which 7.4 percent are struggling with major depression. As the rate of mental diseases like anxiety and depression is rising among Chinese teenagers, the mental health-related topic is also under the spotlight during the Two Sessions. There was significant support for proposals on raising awareness of mental health problems during last year's Two Sessions. CPPCC member Li Lijuan proposed strengthening the prevention of depression among teenagers to stem the rise among younger-age groups. Several months later, the Ministry of Education responded to these proposals, saying that screening for depression will be included in students' regular health checks. Also, the ministry issued a guideline advising all academic institutions to strengthen students' mental health management. It said that primary and junior middle schools should include mental health education in their curricula and ensure each school has at least one mental health counselor to address students' psychological needs. Besides efforts made on campus, the role of the family cannot be underestimated. Good parenting supports a child with a positive mental attitude. It's recommended that parents talk to their children openly and honestly to ensure that they feel supported through each stage of development. With the rapid rise of mental health cases, raising public awareness and knowledge of mental health is crucial. Last year, Shanghai Mental Health Center opened an exhibition showcasing its inpatients' artworks. The curator, Chen Zhimin, hoped the exhibition could reduce the public's fear and discrimination against mentally ill people. Art exhibitions discussing anti-body shaming and eating disorders, as well as the TV drama "Female Psychologists," a show focusing on psychological counseling, also helped raise awareness on the mental health issue. In sum, from individuals to authorities, from proposals to policies, the society as a whole is trying to tackle mental health issues. Script writer & on-camera reporter: Xu Jinhui Video editor: Zeng Hongen Cover image: Yin Yating Producer: Li Tianfu Chief editor: Lin Dongwei Supervisor: Li Chunxia