The 2022 Winter Paralympics, which concluded on March 13, left some great memories for many of the participants after nine days of competitions in 78 events in the three competitions zones of Beijing, Yanqing and Zhangjiakou. International Paralympic Committee (IPC) President Andrew Parsons praised China's efforts as the host at the closing ceremony at the National Stadium in Beijing. "Awesome organization, vibrant venues and sensational sport – the hallmarks of great Games here in Beijing," he said. "For sure, China has set a benchmark for all future Winter Games." The IPC chief was not the only one impressed by Beijing 2022. U.S. snowboarder Mike Minor said he enjoyed the vibe and positive energy in China. "Everyone is awesome here," he said. Finnish snowboarder Matti Sairanen, who has lived for 20 years in China, called the 2022 Winter Paralympics "memorable" and said wanted to visit the country again if he has the chance in the future. "You guys have remarkable facilities and great services in the venues here," French biathlon athlete Benjamin Daviet said. "The buildings are beautiful and I've got wonderful experience." U.S. biathlon athlete Danielle Aravich spoke highly of Chinese volunteers' work. So did Romanian delegation leader Ciprian Anton, who worked five to six hours with volunteers every day. "To the 9,000 volunteers: you have been the heartbeat of these Games. Your enthusiasm energized and empowered us all," Parsons said at the closing ceremony. According to the Beijing 2022 organizing committee, nearly 2,900 people participated in the reports and coverage of the 2022 Winter Paralympics. A lot of them had great time in China. "I want to see how Beijing organizes such a huge sports event," Japanese journalist Mitsuru Nagese said. "I traveled from Beijing to Yanqing and Zhangjiakou by high-speed railway. It's so fast and comfortable." As a former para ice hockey player, Nagase said he wanted to introduce the Chinese model of promoting para sports to Japan. Croatian Paralympic Committee President Ratko Kovacic has not missed a single edition of the Paralympics since 2000. This time, he saw a lot of changes in China compared with Beijing 2008 but was just as impressed. "China has done a good job in both preparing for and managing the 2022 Winter Paralympics," Kovacic said. "I call it a successful Winter Paralympics."