Chinese President Xi Jinping on Friday held a phone conversation with South Korean President-elect Yoon Suk-yeol. President Xi once again congratulated Yoon on his election as the president of South Korea. Noting that he attaches great importance to the development of China-South Korea relations, Xi said that the two countries are permanent neighbors and inseparable partners. With joint efforts between the two countries, China-South Korea relations have developed in an all-round way and the two countries have become strategic cooperative partners, Xi said. The development of bilateral relations conforms to the fundamental interests of the two countries and their people, and promotes regional peace and development, he added. Xi stressed that 2022 marks the 30th anniversary of China-South Korea diplomatic relations, which will bring great opportunities for the two sides to uphold mutual political respect, strengthen friendly people-to-people exchange and accelerate steady and long-term development of China-South Korea relations. Considering the current complex and sensitive international situation, the two sides have responsibilities to maintain regional peace and promote world prosperity, Xi pointed out. Xi reiterated that China is willing to strengthen international and regional cooperation with South Korea, and make active efforts to ensure the stability and smoothness of the global industrial chain and supply chain. He also called for safeguarding the UN-centered international system and the international order based on international law, and promoting the construction of a more fair and rational global governance system. For his part, Yoon congratulated China on the successful convening of the "Two Sessions" and the country's major development achievements made under the leadership of President Xi. South Korea and China enjoy a long history of friendly exchanges, Yoon said, noting that over the 30 years since the establishment of bilateral diplomatic ties, the two countries have made great achievements in bilateral cooperation in various fields, bringing tangible benefits to the people of the two countries. Strengthening cooperation between the two countries is conducive to the realization of their respective development, benefits their people, and will also contribute to regional peace and stability in Northeast Asia, he added. South Korea is ready to keep close high-level exchanges with China to enhance mutual trust, promote people-to-people exchange and push bilateral relations to a higher level, Yoon said.