Delegations from Russia and Ukraine are set to hold their third round of talks on Monday, Ukrainian negotiator David Arakhamia said in a Facebook post on Saturday, as the military operation launched by the former has entered the second week. Also happening this upcoming week, the most important event on China's political calendar, the annual "Two Sessions," is expected to end. The gathering this year carries extra weight, as the Communist Party of China (CPC) will convene its National Congress in the second half of the year. The talks "The third round of talks will take place on Monday," Arakhamia, a member of the Ukrainian delegation, wrote. The Russian side was less definitive, saying merely that the talks might start on Monday. "We are waiting for confirmation from the Russians," online newspaper Ukrayinska Pravda reported, quoting a source in Ukrainian President Vladimir Zelenskyy's entourage. The two sides have had two rounds of talks with no major breakthroughs. At their second negotiations on Thursday, the two countries agreed to open humanitarian corridors to allow civilians out of some combat zones, despite delays in implementing them. Russian President Vladimir Putin said he hopes that Kyiv will take a "reasonable and constructive stance" in the third round of talks in his phone conversation with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz Friday. Conclusion of 'Two Sessions' The "Two Sessions," gatherings of China's top political advisory body and the country's top legislature, kicked off last week and is expected to conclude on March 10 and 11, respectively. China has set its GDP growth target at around 5.5 percent for 2022, announced Premier Li Keqiang when delivering the government work report on Saturday. The target is China's lowest in more than 30 years. At a time when the world economy is still facing mounting pressure due to the pandemic and other uncertainties including geopolitical tensions, a growth target of around 5.5 percent for the world's second-largest economy is expected to significantly boost the global economic recovery, analysts told Xinhua. In the upcoming week, a press conference by State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi is expected along with the work reports of the Supreme People's Court and the Supreme People's Procuratorate. Day by day: Monday: Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi meets the press to talk about China's foreign policy and foreign relations. Tuesday: International Women's Day. Wednesday: Israeli President Isaac Herzog visits Turkey upon the invitation of President Recep Tayyip Erdogan. South Korea holds its presidential election. Thursday: U.S. President Joe Biden meets with Colombian President Ivan Duque in the White House. Friday: 11th anniversary of Sendai earthquake and tsunami. Saturday & Sunday: Quiet days in politics. (With input from agencies)