China will provide emergency food aid to drought-affected countries in the Horn of Africa. This was conveyed by Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi to Somalia's Foreign Minister Abdisaid Muse Ali during a phone conversation on Monday. The assistance to Somalia, Eritrea, Ethiopia and Djibouti comes as another step by China to implement the "Initiative of Peaceful Development in the Horn of Africa," said Wang. Proposed by China in January, the initiative aims to support the region's countries in addressing the triple challenges of security, development and governance, and in realizing lasting stability, peace and prosperity, in the spirit of non-interference with their domestic affairs. Last week, China appointed its former ambassador to Papua New Guinea Xue Bing as the special envoy for the Horn of Africa affairs. "The Chinese side is taking concrete actions to implement the initiative and support the development of the Horn of Africa," said Wang. Abdisaid welcomed China's appointment of the special envoy. China-Somalia relations Wang hailed the traditional friendship between China and Somalia, and said that China will support it in safeguarding its national sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity. The Chinese side stands ready to take the opportunity of promoting the Belt and Road Initiative and implementing the outcomes of the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation to take China-Somalia relations to a new level, he said. China will continue to provide assistance for the reconstruction and development of Somalia, exploring how to build livelihood projects in areas with better security and boosting cooperation in agriculture, fisheries, health and other fields, Wang added. Abdisaid said the Somali side attaches great importance to developing relations with China and will continue to support China on issues involving its core interests and major concerns. Somalia opposes Taiwan region's collusion with Somaliland, which violates Somalia's sovereignty, he said, adding that his country will continue its strategic and pragmatic cooperation with China. He added, the country is ready to build the Belt and Road and boost cooperation with China in infrastructure, agriculture, education and people's livelihood to take the bilateral relations to a higher level.