SARS-CoV-2, the virus causing the COVID-19 pandemic, is likely to keep evolving as transmission continues globally, but its severity may reduce due to immunity acquired by vaccination and infection, the World Health Organization (WHO) said on Wednesday. Speaking at an online briefing, WHO Director-General Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus gave three possible scenarios for how the pandemic could evolve this year. "Based on what we know now, the most likely scenario is that the virus continues to evolve, but the severity of the disease it causes reduces over time as immunity increases due to vaccination and infection," he said. However, he warned that periodic spikes in cases and deaths may occur as immunity wanes, which may require periodic boosting for vulnerable populations. Talking about the other two potential scenarios, Tedros said either less severe variants will emerge and boosters or new formulations of vaccines will not be necessary, or a more virulent variant will emerge and protection from prior vaccination or infection will wane rapidly. WHO lays out plan to end acute phase of COVID-19 The WHO released an updated plan for COVID-19 on Wednesday, laying out key strategies that, if implemented in 2022, would allow the world to end the acute phase of the pandemic. To help end the emergency, WHO called on countries to continue or increase virus surveillance capabilities to allow for early warning signs of significant changes in the virus. It also called for improved detection of long COVID-19, to track and reduce long-term disability after the pandemic has ended. Countries also must continue to do diagnostic testing for SARS-CoV-2, which helps identify individual cases and guide community-level decision making. Countries also must track virus evolution within animal populations, according to the WHO. The WHO continues to promote the goal of vaccinating 70 percent of the world against COVID-19, with a focus on the most vulnerable groups. The report acknowledges that current vaccines are proving less effective than hoped in reducing the transmission of the Omicron variant, but says the target still remains relevant. As of the end of March 2022, more than 11 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines have been administered globally. But some 36 percent of the global population have yet to receive a first dose. "I think what is laid out is a reasonable, high-level, comprehensive approach," said David Dowdy, an infectious disease epidemiologist at Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health. "Whether it gets us out of the acute phase or not may depend more on the virus and on the implementation of this approach than the document itself. But I think the document is a good first start," he said. The report, titled Strategic Preparedness, Readiness and Response Plan, is the WHO's third, and will likely be its last, Tedros said. The WHO's first report was released in February 2020. (With input from agencies)