Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Thursday urged the U.S. to take practical actions to unfreeze Afghanistan's assets and lift unreasonable sanctions on the country. Wang made the remarks in a meeting with special representatives of the United States, Russia and Pakistan on the Afghan issue in Tunxi, east China's Anhui Province. On the same day, the envoys also attended a meeting of the "China-U.S.-Russia +" consultation mechanism on the Afghan issue, which was chaired by Yue Xiaoyong, a special envoy for Afghan affairs of the Chinese Foreign Ministry. Wang said that China, the U.S., Russia and Pakistan are important stakeholders in the Afghan issue and countries with important influence on Afghanistan, adding the four parties have complementary advantages and can accomplish a lot with joint efforts. Since the situation of Afghanistan has changed rapidly, the consultation mechanism has played a constructive role in achieving a smooth transition for Afghanistan, which China appreciates, Wang said. Under the new situation, the Chinese foreign minister called on four parties to reorient their work and make efforts to help Afghanistan rebuild the country and improve people's livelihood. Wang also urged efforts to promote the Afghan side to respond positively to the expectations of the international community, especially by effectively fulfilling its commitment to completely cut off and eliminate terrorist forces and create the necessary conditions for Afghanistan's economic and social development. He also voiced hope that the four countries will strengthen coordination in the spirit of seeking common ground while reserving differences to send consistent positive signals to the outside world. Wang said the work of the consultation mechanism should focus on pragmatism and adhere to an issue-oriented approach while striving for more practical and feasible initiatives. He called for maintaining a pioneering spirit, actively exploring and resolving difficult issues, and promote the "China-U.S.-Russia +" consultation mechanism to play an effective role in the peaceful reconstruction of Afghanistan and the well-being of the people. (Cover: A meeting of the "China-U.S.-Russia +" consultation mechanism is held in in Tunxi, China's Anhui Province, March 31, 2022. /CMG)