The Boston Red Sox and shortstop Trevor Story have reached a six-year, $140 million contract, which includes an opt-out after the fourth season, according to ESPN. Story received National League (NL) MVP votes in the 2018, 2019 and 2020 seasons as a two-time All-Star and Silver Slugger award winner. He hit 75 runs batted in and 24 home runs at a batting average of .251 last season in the Colorado Rockies. Like other players who departed the Mile High City, Story's batting could draw some concerns. Some of his batting stats dropped on the road compared with those when he was playing at Coors Field. Nolan Arenado, DJ LeMahieu and Troy Tulowitzki all hit better on the road than at home after leaving the Rockies. Story's position may be another problem. He has never played in any position other than shortstop in the major league, and he was a top option for that in league with plus-18 outs in 2019. He even made a finalist for the NL Gold Glove race. However, Xander Bogaerts has been playing shortstop for the Red Sox for seven seasons and won the World Series title with the team in 2018. Bogaerts called Story one his "top five shortstops" but also said he doesn’t worry at all about his position. "I play baseball. I'm not at the front office or [involved in] making those type of decisions," Bogaerts said. "But he is a great player. So that's all I got to say. If you brought in someone like that, it will help out the team." The Red Sox can also put Story at second base, which currently belongs to Enrique Hernandez. Hernandez hopes he can settle down in center field if Story arrives at second. "I've always said that if you can play shortstop, you can play anywhere. And I've seen him play enough to know that he's incredibly athletic, he's gifted. So I don't doubt one bit that he's going to be able to transition smoothly to second base and help us win some ballgames and help us get to October and deep into October," Hernandez said. The team's right-handed pitcher Nathan Eovaldi believes the addition of Story to their franchise will be a great help for the Red Sox. "It shows us the front office ... we know that they want to want to win ... but then to add another big piece to the organization like that would be huge," Eovaldi said. "And the energy and everything that he brings to the team, seeing him across the field, it's exciting watching him play. And to have him back there behind you, especially for me while I'm pitching, and then scoring runs for us. ... Our lineup is already extremely talented, and to add another piece like that, it's only going to make us better."