World Wildlife Day is annually observed on March 3 to raise awareness about wild animals and plants. The United Nations General Assembly decided in a 2013 session to mark the day every year. It's being celebrated this year under the theme "Recovering key species for ecosystem restoration" to draw attention towards the conservation status of some of the most critically endangered species of wild fauna and flora. It also focuses on igniting discussions towards imagining and implementing solutions to conserve them. According to data from the International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red List of Threatened Species, over 8,400 species of wild fauna and flora are critically endangered, while close to 30,000 more are understood to be endangered or vulnerable. Based on these estimates, it is suggested that over a million species are threatened with extinction. As one of the most biologically diverse countries globally, China has been stepping up efforts to protect wildlife. By implementing wildlife habitat protection, rescue and breeding, on-site relocation of wild plant protection and return to nature and other projects, China has effectively protected 90 percent of vegetation types and terrestrial ecosystems, 65 percent of higher plant communities and 85 percent of key wild animal populations, according to National Forestry and Grassland Administration. China in 2021 officially set up its first batch of national parks, including Sanjiangyuan National Park, Giant Panda National Park, Northeast China Tiger and Leopard National Park, Hainan Tropical Rainforest National Park and Wuyi Mountain National Park, which covers an area of 230,000 square kilometers, with nearly 30 percent of land wildlife species under national protection. Also, China has launched the construction of a national botanical garden system in Beijing, Guangzhou and other places. During the 14th Five-Year Plan period, China will carry out special species surveys, implement rescue protection for 48 critically endangered species of wild animals and 50 species of wild plants and their habitats. Meanwhile, China will continue to improve laws and regulations on wildlife protection. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at nature@cgtn.com.)