The 2022 Winter Paralympic Games is officially open at the National Stadium in Beijing, China. Chinese President Xi Jinping declared the opening of the Games after International Paralympic Committee (IPC) president Andrew Parsons' address. Parsons spoke highly of China's preparations for the Winter Paralympics. "Ahead of these Games, hundreds of thousands of facilities have been made barrier free. The venues are magnificent. The organisation is extraordinary. The COVID-19 prevention and control — safe and efficient. The hospitable Chinese people have built the stage to fully showcase the best of Paralympic winter sports. Efforts to encourage and engage persons with disabilities to try winter sports have been outstanding." He went on to encourage people with disabilities, who account for 15 percent of the population in the world, to find their power and maximize what they can do. "Every one of the world's 1.2 billion citizens with disabilities should have the same opportunity to live life to the fullest, chasing their dreams, finding their way through life's ups and downs, and contributing to society." Directed by Zhang Yimou, the program is themed "Blossoming of Life", and divided into 12 segments, including the parade of athletes and the lighting of the Paralympic cauldron. Sight-impaired Li Duan, Paralympic long jump and triple jump champion at Athens 2004 and Beijing 2008, placed the torch in the middle of a giant snowflake-shaped cauldron which later ascended to the top of the stadium, after the torch was relayed by eight Paralympic athletes. Among some 800 performers, 30 percent are people with disabilities to demonstrate their integration can make a more inclusive society. The Beijing Winter Paralympics will run through March 13, with para athletes competing in 78 events across six sports: alpine skiing, cross-country skiing, biathlon, snowboarding, para ice hockey, and wheelchair curling. These events will be staged at six venues in the three competition zones of Beijing, Yanqing and Zhangjiakou.