China on Friday called for restraint on the Korean Peninsula nuclear issue after the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) test-launched an intercontinental ballistic missile the previous day. "Under the current circumstances, we call on the parties concerned to stay calm, exercise restraint, stay on the right track of dialogue and consultation, and avoid taking any action that may exacerbate tensions and lead to miscalculations," Zhang Jun, China's permanent representative to the United Nations, told the Security Council meeting on the situation of the Korean Peninsula. "As the peninsula's next door neighbor, China has been consistent in advocating and promoting the peninsula's peace and stability, its denuclearization, and the approach of seeking a solution through dialogue and consultation," Zhang said, adding that "we hope the United States and the DPRK will actively pursue dialogue and engagement in search of an effective solution to settle their differences." Zhang said the direct parties to the peninsula issue, namely the United States and the DPRK, should re-engage in direct talks without delay. On Friday, Wang Wenbin, spokesperson for the Chinese Foreign Ministry, also stressed "calm and restraint" from all sides and the need for a "political settlement" to the Korean Peninsula issue. Any move that could further deteriorate and escalate the regional tension should not be taken, Wang stressed, calling for negotiations. On the same day, the UN Security Council (UNSC) extended the mandate of the panel of experts assisting the committee which oversees its sanctions against the DPRK until April 30, 2023. The DPRK confirmed that it had launched a new type of Hwasongpho-17 ICBM on Thursday under the guidance of the country's leader Kim Jong Un. It marked the first full-capability launch of the country's largest missiles since 2017. Hours after, Washington announced sanctions targeting DPRK's missile programs. The sanctions would include two Russian companies and a DPRK entity for transferring sensitive items to the program. (Cover: File photo of Zhang Jun, China's permanent representative to the United Nations. /CFP)