The Beijing 2022 Organizing Committee for the Olympic Games (BOCOG) wants Chinese society to adopt an "accessibility mindset" following the city's hosting of the Paralympic Winter Games. BOCOG spokesperson Yan Jiarong made the remarks during a press conference on Thursday, saying that such a "mindset" is an "indispensable foundation" for fixing accessibility defects and promoting inclusivity. "People already know a lot about accessibility in terms of facilities," Yan said. "What I want to stress is promoting an 'accessibility mindset,' an indispensable foundation for promoting the cause of persons with disabilities and building an inclusive society. It is even more important and a more difficult task to remove such barriers in the world." In expanding on the principle, she said, "Every one of us has an understanding and a tolerant heart, and truly respects, cares and helps disabled friends so that they can better integrate into society. "It is hoped that the Beijing Winter Paralympics will help change society's attitude towards the disabled, lead people to pay more attention to the improvement of the ability of people with disabilities, help them participate in social life on an equal basis, obtain better employment, education, medical care opportunities and constantly improve the sense of security, gain, and happiness." Referring to the Beijing 2022 motto "Together for a Shared Future," Yan said "together" is the key. "We have always been and will keep caring about people with disabilities," she said. According to the National Bureau of Statistics, as of October 2021, 346 million Chinese, almost a quarter of China's population, had participated in winter sports. "The increased population of winter sports participation has led to a boom in the market for Chinese winter sports equipment. With the popularity of the Winter Games, more consumers recognize the necessity of professional winter sports equipment," said Wang Xueli, director of the center for the development of sports industry of Tsinghua University. A view of barrier-free equipment and volunteering service at the Games (With input from Xinhua)