Chinese President Xi Jinping on Wednesday had a phone conversation with Turkmen President Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedov and President–elect Serdar Berdimuhamedov. Xi congratulated the successful holding of the Turkmen presidential election and also Serdar Berdimuhamedov on his election as the president of Turkmenistan. He also wished Turkmenistan to make new and greater achievements in the "Rejuvenation of a New Era." Xi pointed out that the bilateral relations have made remarkable achievements and reached a new level of strategic partnership in recent years. China attaches great importance to Sino-Turkmen relations and will firmly support the internal and foreign polices of Turkmenistan and resolutely reject external interference or attempts to interfere in Turkmen internal affairs. Noting that he attaches great importance to the development of China-Turkmenistan relations, Xi said he is willing to build on past achievements and forge ahead into the future with the Turkmen side, pushing the bilateral relations to a new level, striving shoulder-to-shoulder to build an even closer China-Turkmenistan community with a shared future. Xi stressed that the Sino-Turkmen cooperation fully reflects the high level of mutual trust and sincere friendship between the two sides. The five-year intergovernmental plan has formulated a road map for all-round cooperation between the two countries, clarifying key areas and prioritizing the direction of the cooperation in the future. The two sides should enlarge the volume and scale of cooperation in natural gas and other fields and align the Belt and Road Initiative with Turkmenistan's strategy to revive the Great Silk Road at a faster speed and strengthen interconnectivity cooperation, bringing tangible benefits to the two peoples, he noted. Considering the current complex and sensitive international and regional situation, the two sides should enhance communication and coordination, uphold and practice true multilateralism, and contribute to the promotion of the democratization of international relations and international justice, Xi stressed. Highly valuing the achievements made in the development of the relations between the two countries, the Turkmen president and president-elect said Turkmenistan will firmly adhere to the policy of friendly relations of cooperation with China, actively promote all-round pragmatic cooperation in various fields, and benefit the peoples of the two countries.