Russia traded accusations with the United States and Britain at the United Nations on Tuesday over the possibility of a chemical weapons attack in Ukraine, but none produced any evidence to back their concerns. The comments were made by diplomats to reporters after Russia raised the issue of an ammonia leak in Ukraine's besieged northeastern city of Sumy – blaming "Ukrainian radical nationalist groups" – during a closed-door UN Security Council meeting. The accusation was rejected by Britain and the United States. Dmitry Polyanskiy, Russia's deputy UN ambassador, said Russian troops "have never planned or carried out strikes against any Ukrainian facilities where toxic substances are stored or produced." "It is clear that the Ukrainian nationalist authorities, encouraged by the Western countries, will stop at nothing to intimidate its own people and stage false flag attacks to accuse Russia," Polyanskiy said. U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations Linda Thomas-Greenfield dismissed Russia's accusations as "ludicrous." "Our concern is that this is a precursor for Russia's plans to use chemical weapons," she said. A senior U.S. defense official said on Tuesday that the United States has not yet seen any concrete indications of an imminent Russian chemical or biological weapons attack in Ukraine but is closely monitoring intelligence. U.S. President Joe Biden said on Monday, without providing evidence, that Russia's accusations that Kyiv has biological and chemical weapons illustrate that Russian President Vladimir Putin is considering using them himself in Ukraine. In his talk, Biden also warned Russia of a "severe" Western response if Putin decided to use such weapons. Putin's "back is against the wall and now he's talking about new false flags he's setting up, including asserting that we in America have biological as well as chemical weapons in Europe – simply not true. I guarantee you," Biden said. Polyanskiy likened the situation in Ukraine to Syria, where he said chemical attacks by "terrorist groups" were blamed on the Russian-backed Syrian government. A joint inquiry by the United Nations and the Organization for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (OPCW) accused Syria's government forces of using nerve agent sarin and chlorine as a weapon. It also blamed the Islamic State for mustard gas use. It was the third time Russia raised the issue of biological or chemical weapons since it began "special military operation" on February 24. Such remarks echoed comments by the U.S. and its allied countries, who have accused Russia of spreading unproven claims that Ukraine had a biological weapons program as a possible prelude to potentially launching its own biological or chemical attacks. Earlier this month, U.S. National Security Adviser Jake Sullivan spoke with Nikolay Patrushev, secretary of Russia's Security Council, warning him of consequences for "any possible Russian decision to use chemical or biological weapons in Ukraine." The White House did not specify what those consequences would be. (With input from agencies)