Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Thursday that China is ready to strengthen communication with all relevant parities to prevent a humanitarian crisis in Ukraine. During separate virtual meetings with French Foreign Minister Jean-Yves Le Drian and Italian Foreign Minister Luigi Di Maio, Wang said that China is willing to consult with all the parties to advance the United Nations Security Council in reaching consensus on how to avoid the humanitarian crisis in the eastern European country. Wang said the Chinese side is very concerned about the humanitarian situation and has played an active role in the evacuation of citizens of third countries, especially international students, in Ukraine. China has put forward a six-point initiative on the humanitarian situation in Ukraine, including sheltering the displaced, ensuring unimpeded humanitarian access, and supporting the UN's coordinating role. Le Drian said, France is ready to continue its cooperation with China in the UN Security Council and contribute to the prevention of a humanitarian crisis and the promotion of a diplomatic settlement. Di Maio said Italy attaches great importance to China's six-point initiative and is ready to strengthen communication with China. China to promote talks for peace Wang's talks with his two European counterparts came two days after Chinese President Xi Jinping's virtual summit with French President Emmanuel Macron and German Chancellor Olaf Scholz. In addressing the Ukraine issue during Tuesday's meeting, Xi said China maintains that the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries must be respected, the purposes and principles of the UN Charter must be fully observed, the legitimate security concerns of all countries must be taken seriously, and all efforts that are conducive to the peaceful settlement of the crisis must be supported. Citing this stance, Wang said China stands ready to strengthen communication and coordination with others to continue to play a constructive role in promoting talks for peace. He also called for the international community to continue to encourage and support Russia and Ukraine to conduct negotiations, and to create the necessary environment and conditions for the talks. Wang also warned against resorting to unilateral sanctions and long-arm jurisdiction that can find no basis in international law. Noting the impact on food, energy, finance and global supply chains that escalating sanctions will have, he urged all parties to calm down and do more to help de-escalate the situation. On European security Wang said the crisis in Ukraine is closely related to the security and stability of Europe, and China fully understands the high level of concern of European countries, including Italy. European countries should, based on the principle of indivisibility of security and on the basis of the agreements reached, conduct in-depth and comprehensive discussions with Russia to form a balanced, effective and sustainable European security framework for the lasting stability and security of Europe, he said. Di Maio said the European security mechanism requires equal-footed consultations among all parties to achieve a win-win situation. (Cover: File photo of Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi. /Chinese Foreign Ministry)