Universities are the main sources of greenhouse gas emissions in education but are also the best places for studying and innovating on carbon projects, Wang Yanxin, a member of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) National Committee, has acknowledged. As China aims to hit peak emissions before 2030 and achieve carbon neutrality by 2060, he brought a proposal to this year's Two sessions to promote the construction of carbon-neutral facilities in higher education and cultivate innovation among students toward a low-carbon future. Wang, who has worked in hydrogeology and environmental science for years and is president of the China University of Geosciences (CUG) in Wuhan City, believes universities have a responsibility to provide scientific support and produce qualified scientists and technicians to help achieve China's "dual carbon" goals. Wang also suggested building a carbon-neutral school to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and save energy. The Ministry of Education formulated an action plan for colleges and universities in July 2021, calling on schools to facilitate helping the goals of carbon neutrality by improving the education system and making breakthroughs in basic research and key technologies. In 2014, Wang put forward the idea of constructing an ecotype university. The CUG had proposed a framework of carbon neutrality plan ahead of the release of the action plan, and the university's Future City Campus won the honorary title ­of "Wuhan carbon-neutral pioneer demonstration unit" last August. Wang said the air conditioning system of the Future City Campus uses the new technology of a ground-source heat pump, which saves 120,000 KWh if used 6 months of every year. And the campus also has a rainwater collection system. After being recycled and processed by ecological green ponds, the water can be used for flushing toilets, watering gardens and washing roads, saving 50,000 cubic meters of water annually. Wuhan City, the capital city of Hubei Province, will hold the 14th Meeting of Conference of the Contracting Parties to the Ramsar Convention on Wetlands (COP14) in November. According to the Wuhan Carbon Peaking Action Plan 2017-2022 issued by Wuhan Municipal People's Government, the city will achieve the goal of carbon emissions to peak by 2022. (Cover image: The China University of Geosciences (CUG) in Wuhan City, Hubei Province. /CFP ) (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at nature@cgtn.com.)