The Dallas Mavericks defeated the Brooklyn nets 113-111 at the Barclays Center on Wednesday after Spencer Dinwiddie beat the buzzer from downtown for the Mavericks. This was the second time for Dinwiddie to make the game-winning 3-pointer for his team in four days and both shots were assisted by Luka Doncic. "Same as Boston," Doncic said. "That's it." Dinwiddie played five seasons for the Nets and averaged 20.6 points and 6.8 assists in his best-performing 2019-20 season, leading the team to the playoffs. Though his departure from Brooklyn was hardly pleasant, he didn't seem to hold too many grudges in Wednesday's game. "It's like sticking it to your cousin versus, like, being vengeful for an enemy," Dinwiddie said. Before Doncic delivered that assist for Dinwiddie, he had already shot 14 for 26 in field goals (FGs), including making five of his 12 triples attempts, to drop 37 points, nine rebounds and eight assists. In that possession, he was facing Nic Claxton at the top of the key when Kevin Durant decided to double-team Doncic. It's an understandable call because Doncic basically punished every defender that tried to stop him alone in this game. Moreover, Dinwiddie missed four of his five shots behind the arc at that time. He also didn't get an open look even after Doncic passed to him because Goran Dragic arrived in time to challenge the shot. However, Dinwiddie still made that 3-pointer, which was an answer ball to the one Durant made 10 seconds earlier to put the Nets on top 111-110. "When you watch that last play, just regret, wondering what the game would have been like if I didn't go jump Luka right there. You know what I'm saying?" Durant said after the game. "So, in hindsight, I wish I would have made a different decision, but it is what it is." Unlike the Nets which allowed so many one-on-one possessions of Doncic, the Mavericks sent two defenders to double-team Durant in most time of the game and the trapping usually happened high in order to keep from pulling up directly. That partly explained why Durant shot only 8 for 20 in FGs but delivered 10 assists. Though the Mavericks defensive arrangements throttled Durant's firepower, it came at the cost of losing control of rebounds. The Nets led in both offensive rebounds 19-9 and second-chance points 21-8. Andre Drummond had a double-double of 14 points and 17 rebounds, including eight on the offensive glass. His existence under the hoop encouraged his teammates to shoot more decisively because they knew they had the better chance of shooting again in the same possession. While the Nets were enjoying Drummond's rebounding benefits, they had to stand the defensive losses from him facing Doncic in mismatch. Four of Doncic's five 3-pointers took place in front of Drummond. That's partly why Drummond never returned after he was substituted at 7:02 in the last quarter. Trash talks sound so hollow after loss The Minnesota Timberwolves beat the Los Angeles Lakers 124-104 at Target Center on Wednesday to secure their third straight win. Though the Lakers put Dwight Howard, a full-sized center, in their starting-lineup for the first time in five games, they barely contained Karl-Anthony Towns who still scored 30 points and eight rebounds. Meanwhile, the growth in size slowed the purple and gold down on defense so they couldn't reach the 3-point line in time. As a result, the Timberwolves shot 17 for 42 from outside. Wednesday's game also marked the ninth win of the Timberwolves in the past 10 games. They are currently seventh in the Western Conference with a 41-30 record. With only 11 games to go, the Timberwolves shouldn't be too worried about being caught up with by the Los Angeles Clippers which are 5.5 games away. However, considering that their following seven games are all against top seven teams in the two conferences, the home win on Wednesday was still important. "We need that right now, a check underneath the hood, if you will," Timberwolves head coach Chris Finch said. By contrast, the Lakers suffered their third loss in a row and remain ninth in the West. The New Orleans Pelicans and San Antonio Spurs are only one and 2.5 games behind, respectively. The chance of the purple and gold failing to attend even the play-in tournament is not exactly zero. When Russell Westbrook shot an air ball from the left corner in the third quarter, both Beverley and Towns mocked him. Beverley pretended to hide from a flying brick while Towns yelled that someone opened a window. "Their trash talking doesn't bother me," Westbrook said at the post-game press conference. "Nobody over there has done anything in this league." In response, Beverley tweeted: "Playoffs every year. 2 western conference finals with 2 different Teams individual stats or team stats? I thought it was a team sport??" Westbrook and Beverley have a history, and trash talking is part of the game. However, when your team is struggling to stay hopeful for the postseason, your voice ceases to sound so compelling. Other games on Wednesday (away teams come first): Atlanta Hawks 106-116 Charlotte Hornets Philadelphia 76ers 118-114 Cleveland Cavaliers Denver Nuggets 127-109 Washington Wizards Portland Trail Blazers 98-128 New York Knicks Phoenix Suns 129-112 Houston Rockets Oklahoma City Thunder 120-122 San Antonio Spurs Chicago Bulls 110-125 Utah Jazz Boston Celtics 110-88 Golden State Warriors Milwaukee Bucks 135-126 Sacramento Kings Toronto Raptors 103-100 Los Angeles Clippers