The New York Yankees will soon offer a long-term contract extension to their ace slugger Aaron Judge, the team's general manager Brian Cashman said. "Between now and opening day we'll make an offer and he'll obviously receive an offer and all the conversions will have taken place and will either resolve into a multiyear deal or it won't," Cashman said. "We're committed. We'll make an offer and hear what he has to say in response and then it will be pencils down before opening day." Judge and the Yankees failed to reach an agreement over a salary raise from the current $10.18 million. The player wants $21 million, but the team offered $17 million. If the two sides end in arbitration during the regular season, it will do no good to either side. As a three-time All-Star, Judge had a .287 batting average (BA) with 98 runs batted in (RBIs) and 39 home runs last season. He also won his second Silver Slugger Award and the first Fielding Bible Award while being named to the All-MLB First Team. His performance is behind his confidence in requesting such a high raise of salary. "Go back and forth until we, maybe, can settle on something before the court date and if not, we'll see each other in court," Judge said. He also said negotiations won't distract him. "Not really, I'm a baseball player," he added. "I'm going to come out and do my usual on the field. I've got people that are going to worry about the other stuff for me and put me in the right position and give me the right answers. If I take care of what I've got to do on the field, everything is going to work out." "We're committed. We'll make an offer and hear what he has to say in response and then it will be pencils down before opening day," Cashman said. The Yankees were 92-70 last season and lost to the Boston Red Sox in the American League Wild Card Game. The last time the Yankees reached the World Series was in 2009. Back then they beat the Philadelphia Phillies 4-2 to win the title. The Yankees are hosting the Red Sox in their opening game on April 7.