Russia's military operation in Ukraine entered its second week on Thursday, with its main assault force stalled for days on a highway north of Kyiv and other advances halted at the outskirts of cities it is bombing into wastelands. The number of refugees who fled Ukraine rose to more than 1 million, the United Nations said. And thousands are taking shelter in Kyiv's subways. As of Wednesday, over 2,870 Ukrainian troops had been killed while casualties among the Russian forces amounted to 498, according to Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Major-General Igor Konashenkov. Zelenskyy says defense lines holding against Russian attacks On Thursday, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said in a video that Ukrainian lines were holding. "We have nothing to lose but our own freedom," he said, adding Ukraine was receiving daily arms supplies from its international allies. Germany said it would increase its weapons deliveries to Ukraine and would send 2,700 anti-aircraft missiles to the conflict zone, AFP reported on Thursday, citing a government source. Meanwhile, Zelenskyy sent a letter to the European Commission requesting Ukraine's accession to the EU. "This will be discussed with the [EU] member countries, but now our first task should be to end this terrible war," European Commission President Ursula von der Leyen said at a press conference during a visit to Bucharest. Humanitarian aid inside and outside of Ukraine soars A resident from Ukrainian city of Kherson told CNN that with pharmacies being looted, the city is suffering a severe lack of food and medicine, particularly insulin. European Commission President Von Der Leyen said on Thursday in a news conference that the EU will provide Ukrainian refugees with protection, residency, and access to work and housing, adding that it is "not only an act of compassion in times of war, this is also our duty as Europeans." On Twitter, UN High Commissioner Filippo Grandi wrote, "In just seven days we have witnessed the exodus of 1 million refugees from Ukraine to neighboring countries. For many millions more, inside Ukraine, it's time for guns to fall silent, so that life-saving humanitarian assistance can be provided." The UN appealed for $1.7 billion in humanitarian aid for refugees in Ukraine and its neighboring countries. Russia's Federal Agency for State Reserves has shipped 280 tonnes of humanitarian aid to Ukraine, including food and other items, according to its official website. Global markets roiled as sanctions bite Meanwhile, Russia is facing sanctions ratcheted up by the West, and is being plunged into a deep economic isolation. Russian stocks and bonds are now "in the realms of utterly uninvestable," Chief Executive of Schroders Peter Harrison told Reuters on Thursday, as Western sanctions squeeze Russia's economy after its invasion of Ukraine. As sanctions bite, the conflict has roiled markets worldwide, sending oil prices rocketing and boosting commodity stocks. On Wednesday, oil prices surged to seven-year highs as supply disruption fears mounted following hefty sanctions on Russian banks amid the intensifying Ukraine conflict, while traders rush to seek alternative oil sources in an already tight market. (With input from agencies)