The Tianjin Pioneers, which were 11-43 and ranked third-last in the CBA last season, managed to reach the playoffs this season. One of the biggest contributors to such incredible progress is their head coach Zhang Degui. It has been eight years since the last time the Pioneers appeared in the postseason. The team began this season with a disappointing 3-10 record, but the promotion of Zhang to head coach was a game-changer. They secured eight straight wins in the third stage in Foshan, south China's Guangdong Province in March. "Tianjin were always lagging behind so our players were not confident enough. Sometimes they were overcautious on the court. That's why I decided to begin with helping them build a braver style of the game. I need them to play with more authority," Zhang said of the changes he brought to the team. "I encourage them to stay calm and collected and work hard. I told them to show their character and the best efforts, not to worry too much, in the game. Because you can't gain anything if you worry too much. Having too many worries will keep them from doing their best," Zhang added. The Pioneers lead the CBA in both 3-pointer attempts (37.4) and triples made (13.8). They drained a franchise record 21 shots from downtown twice this season, beating both the Beijing Ducks and Xinjiang Flying Tigers, for the first time in the team's history. It was Zhang's decision to go small and speed up in the game. Driving more fast breaks and shooting more 3-pointers both fit the world's trend for basketball development today. He also helped the team's young talents grow better and faster. Lin Tingqian (Benson Lin), 22, was made the core of the team and averaged 15.8 points, 4.1 assists and 2.2 steals, which is the fourth-best of the league. "Lin plays an integral role in our team," Zhang said. "He's young, but he's very professional. He often does extra training sessions after team practice to work on strength and shooting. I'm glad to see he wants to improve himself on the two fronts." Meng Zikai was another key member of the Pioneers this season. As a 2.06-meter-tall forward, he shot 43.6 percent from downtown to score 12.4 points, 5.4 rebounds and 1.1 blocks per game, all career highs. "Meng Zikai works hard too and he loves training," Zhang said. "He's always very aggressive in the game and our second-best domestic scorer following Lin Tingqian." The Pioneers are challenging the reigning champions Guangdong Southern Tigers in the first round of the playoffs on April 1. "Anything is possible!" Zhang said.