The Kunming Changshui International Airport in southwest China's Yunnan Province is operating normally following Monday's plane crash, but many flights belonging to China Eastern Airlines (CEA), the airline the plane that crashed belongs to have been canceled. At around 1:10 p.m. Beijing time on Monday, a Boeing 737-800 jetliner operated by CEA took off from the Kunming airport, with 132 people on board. It crashed in Tengxian County of Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region about an hour later, before reaching its destination of Guangzhou, the capital city of Guangdong Province. Most of the CEA flights scheduled to set out from Kunming were canceled on Monday night. A male passenger told CGTN on condition of anonymity that he was going to transfer to central China's Wuhan City from Kunming that night, but he just surprisingly got a message from CEA saying that the flight was canceled. "We can get refund from the airlines, and it will arrange our accommodation tonight," he said. "I understand this, as the company needs some time to deal with such a big incident. For people on board, I think there's very little chance of survival, but I still pray for a miracle." Large-scale cancellations continue on Tuesday, including flights from Kunming to cities both in and out of Yunnan Province. "I am inevitably scared by the crash, but I would still take the flight if it's carried out as scheduled," a woman who planned to fly to Guangzhou, told CGTN. "Now I can only change my schedule.” Staff at the CEA service desk at the airport told passengers that some of the cancelled flights might be resumed in one or two days. The Kunming airport said there are 87 inbound flights and 86 outbound flights on Tuesday. So far, the CEA's subsidiary company in Yunnan hasn't made any comments on the incident. The Yunnan provincial government has established several working groups in response to the tragedy. A statement issued on Monday night said that the government would strengthen communication with Guangxi, actively deal with the aftermath and assist in the investigation of the cause.