China and other developing countries have legitimate concerns and similar positions on the current changes in Europe, said Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Sunday. He made the remarks during a joint press conference after meeting with Algerian Foreign Minister Ramtane Lamamra in east China's Anhui Province. "Recently, I have exchanged views with foreign ministers of many Asian and African countries. I feel that many countries in the world, like China, follow closely the development of the Ukraine crisis and share a lot of common ground," Wang said. In dealing with international and regional hotspot issues, war and sanctions are not the only two options, he said, adding that dialogue and negotiation are fundamental solutions. Noting that the momentum of the world's economic recovery should not be undermined, he said that against the backdrop of COVID-19, escalating unilateral sanctions will disrupt the global industrial and supply chains. Every country has the right to decide its own foreign policy independently and should not be forced to take sides, he stressed. The sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity of all countries should be respected at all times, he said. Wang also highlighted China's friendship with African countries, saying that as a good brother of African countries, China will continue to stand with Africa and firmly support Africa in safeguarding peace and security. The more turbulent the international situation is, the more important it is to pay attention to the voice of African countries and increase support and assistance to Africa, he said. The two countries also issued a joint statement after the meeting with various consensuses reached. The two sides will continue to make joint efforts to develop bilateral comprehensive strategic partnership, synergize development strategies in an all-round way to deepen practical cooperation, resolve the Palestinian issue in accordance with relevant UN resolutions, and promote China-Africa comprehensive strategic and cooperative partnership, according to the statement.