Chinese Premier Li Keqiang held a virtual press conference at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on Friday after the conclusion of the fifth session of the 13th National People's Congress. Here are some of the highlights from the press conference. On China's economic growth Steady economic growth on a high base indicated progress, Premier Li stressed. Growth of 5.5 percent on the basis of over 110-trillion-yuan ($17.4 trillion) GDP in China today would generate output that is equivalent to the size of a medium-sized economy, the premier said. China will increase government spending and extend tax and fee cuts to enable steady growth in 2022, he said, adding that fee and tax reductions are the most direct, fair and effective ways to help businesses. The premier put the scale of tax rebates and fee reductions at 2.5 trillion yuan ($400 billion), with tax rebates at 1.5 trillion yuan. Small and micro enterprises, he said, will get priority in the concessions that will be completed before the end of June. Read more: Premier Li: China's GDP growth of 5.5% on a high base means progress On Ukraine situation Talking about the current situation in Ukraine, Li expressed hope that the situation would ease and peace would return as soon as possible. China supports all efforts to de-escalate Russia-Ukraine tensions by peaceful means, Li said, adding China will continue providing humanitarian aid to Ukraine. Read more: China supports all efforts to resolve Ukraine crisis by peaceful means: Premier Li On anti-COVID measures China will continue taking precise and scientific anti-COVID measures according to the changing situation, Li said, adding that the country will gradually achieve the smooth flow of goods and people. Li said China will prevent and control the epidemic to protect people's life, health and safety to keep up the normal running of work and life, and ensure security of industrial and supply chains. Talking about the current epidemic in the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR), Li said that the SAR government should assume primary responsibility in fighting COVID-19 and the central government would give its full support. Read more: Premier Li: China to continue with precise, scientific anti-COVID measures On China-U.S. ties Li called for China and U.S. to continue dialogue. China-U.S. cooperation benefits both countries as well as the world, said the premier, adding that economic competition between the two countries should be healthy and fair. "Since the door has been opened, it should not be shut again nor should there be decoupling," he said. (Cover: Chinese Premier Li Keqiang holds a virtual press conference at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing, China, March 11, 2022. /Xinhua)