Novak Djokovic has announced his withdrawal from the BNP Paribas Open in Indian Wells and the Miami Open due to COVID-19 vaccine regulations. The 20-time Grand Slam champion, who has participated in only one tournament at the Dubai Championships so far in 2022 because he refuses to get vaccinated, was on the Indian Wells entry list heading into Wednesday's draw, but a brief statement from Djokovic confirmed that he will not be able to compete in the United States. "I knew it would be unlikely I'd be able to travel," he tweeted on Wednesday night. "The CDC (Centers for Disease Control) has confirmed that regulations won't be changing so I won't be able to play in the U.S. Good luck to those playing in these great tournaments." Under current U.S. regulations, all non-U.S. citizen travelers entering the country must be vaccinated against COVID-19. Djokovic was at the center of a global media firestorm after being kicked out of the Australian Open in January. The Australian government twice canceled a visa held by the Serbian superstar over the country's COVID-19 entry rules and Djokovic's lawyers appealed twice. Ultimately, he was forced to leave Australia and was unable to defend his title at the year's first Grand Slam. Rafael Nadal ended up winning the Australian Open for his 21st major trophy, breaking a three-way tie between him, Djokovic and Roger Federer for the most wins at the sport's top four tournaments. In February, Djokovic doubled down on his stance on not getting vaccinated and insisted he would opt out of playing in future tournaments that would require him getting inoculated. "Yes, that is the price that I'm willing to pay," Djokovic told the BBC in his first interview since being deported from Australia. "Because the principles of decision-making on my body are more important than any title or anything else." "I'm trying to be in tune with my body as much as I possibly can," he said, adding that he has always been careful about everything he ingests. "Based on all the information that I got, I decided not to take the vaccine, as of today." According to multiple media outlets, Djokovic was the only tennis player ranked in the top 100 who had not received a vaccination. The Serb said he understood the important role that the vaccines played in the fight against the pandemic, but he remained unwilling to take one. "I was never against vaccination," he said. "But I've always supported the freedom to choose what you put in your body."