The Golden State Warriors beat the Miami Heat 118-104 at FTX Arena on Wednesday, ending their three-game losing streak. The Warriors missed Stephen Curry, Draymond Green, Klay Thompson, Andre Iguodala and Otto Porter Jr. in Wednesday's game. They basically sent the "B Team" to challenge the Eastern Conference leader on the road. However, these backup players of the Warriors showed amazing energy on the floor. They led in both rebounds 45-34 and free throws (earned 27-21, made 23-16). Jordan Poole shot 7 for 13 from downtown to score team-leading 30 points and nine assists. Jonathan Kuminga was fouled out in the fourth quarter, but his continuous charging of the rim caused great trouble for the Heat's defense. The first-year forward shot 7 for 9 under the hoop and earned eight free throws and made four to get 22 points. Andrew Wiggins who had been struggling since the All-Star break stood out on Wednesday night as well by dropping 22 points, 20 of which happened in the second half. Damion Lee contributed 22 points off the bench, leading the Warriors' bench unit to outscore their Heat counterpart 42-13. "Our overall competitive fire and execution at both ends ... was excellent," Warriors head coach Steve Kerr said. The Heat's starting-lineup didn't perform so badly as four of them reached double-digit points, led by Kyle Lowry's 26. Nonetheless, lack of Tyler Herro cost their bench squad most of their firepower. Whenever the core players had to take a breath, the Heat seemed so vulnerable on the court. The Warriors began third quarter with a 19-0 run. Heat head coach Erik Spoelstra called a timeout to try to contain the opponents' flurry, only to find that trouble caught him in his back yard. Spoelstra and veteran Udonis Haslem exchanged words and pointing fingers with Jimmy Butler during the timeout. In the end, they had to be separated by teammates. "We have a competitive, gnarly group and we were getting our asses kicked," Spoelstra said of the conflict at the post-game press conference. "It was crazy. It was passion," Lowry said. The Heat's lead over the following three teams dropped to 1.5 games after Wednesday's loss with nine games to go. No Morant, but no problem for Grizzlies The Memphis Grizzles beat the Brooklyn Nets 132-120 at FedExForum on Wednesday without Ja Morant to become the second 50-win team of the season. The Grizzlies couldn't stop Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving from combining 78 points, 13 rebounds and 16 assists, but neither could the Nets match the Grizzlies in teamwork. The Grizzlies had seven players score double-digit points and led in rebounds (46-39), assists (28-18), bench points (52-11), 3-pointers made (19-9) and second-chance points (33-18). "Great example of just staying the course. We've been saying that throughout the season," Grizzlies head coach Taylor Jenkins said. "Togetherness. That's probably the biggest thing." This was the fifth time for the Grizzlies to reach 50 wins in franchise history that began in 1995. Their record without Morant was incredible 15-2, which spoke well of the team's intimidating depth. "They are playing with freedom knowing (Morant) is not there so a lot of guys are playing with a free mind and spirit," Durant said. "You see it's translating into buckets." Having overloaded himself in the first three quarters by scoring 33 points, nine rebounds and seven assists, he missed four of his five field goals attempts in the Lat quarter to get only two points. Kyrie Irving had court-high 43 points for the Nets, including 10 in the fourth quarter. Despite the loss, both him and the team should be glad to learn that he will be able to play in the home games at the Barclays Center for the rest of the season. Shams Charania of The Athletic reported that New York City will on Thursday change private sector vaccine mandate to allow exemption for athletes and entertainers in workplace. The Nets are 38-35 and ranking eighth in the East after Wednesday's loss. They are 2.5 games behind seventh Toronto Raptors, one game above ninth Charlotte Hornets and two games above 10th Atlanta Hawks. If Irving can play in all of the future nine games instead of only three on the road, it can be a great boost to the franchise which is trying to secure an advantageous spot in the play-in tournament. Other games on Wednesday (away teams come first): New York Knicks 121-106 Charlotte Hornets Atlanta Hawks 101-122 Detroit Pistons Sacramento Kings 110-109 Indiana Pacers Utah Jazz 97-125 Boston Celtics Phoenix Suns 125-116 Minnesota Timberwolves Orlando Magic 102-118 Oklahoma City Thunder Houston Rockets 91-110 Dallas Mavericks Philadelphia 76ers 126-121 Los Angeles San Antonio Spurs 133-96 Portland Trail Blazers