Sunday night's El Clasico was billed as the biggest test of Barcelona's progress under the command of Xavi Hernandez and they passed with sensational ease after stunning La Liga leaders Real Madrid 4-0 at the Santiago Bernabeu. Pierre-Emerick Aubameyang, who joined Barca in the winter transfer window, continued his red-hot form by scoring twice on his El Clasico debut, while Ronald Araujo and Ferran Torres completed the hammering. The victory ended their five-game losing streak to Real and stretched their unbeaten run to 12 games. "It can change the dynamics of the present and the future," said an emotional Xavi. "We had lots of chances and we were much better than Madrid, far superior. We deserved to score so many goals." It took a while for the incredible result to sink in. "Of course we didn't expect this scoreline, but we did everything we intended to do from the start," beamed Barca captain Sergio Busquets. "Everything went our way and we could have scored even more goals." Though Barcelona are still 12 points behind Real, they could close the gap to their fierce rivals to only nine if they win their game in hand against Rayo Vallecano. "If we have a minimum chance, we will keep fighting," Busquets said. "We know it's going to be hard, but in football anything can happen." In sharp contrast, it was a humiliating night for Real, who were without their top scorer Karim Benzema and Ferland Mendy due to injuries. It was their first home loss in 24 league games and their biggest league defeat to Barca at home since 2015. "We played badly and I planned the game badly," said Real coach Carlo Ancelotti, whose future became uncertain after a loss as dramatic as this one. "I am sorry for the defeat and I am sad." The sentiment was echoed by Madrid defender Nacho Fernandez. "The result says it all," the Spanish defender said. "We played badly and they played well. Nothing worked for us. It was our first bad match this season. Maybe we were too relaxed because of our advantage in the standings." Earlier in the day, French leaders Paris Saint-Germain also fell to their heaviest defeat of the campaign with an embarrassing 3-0 loss at Monaco. Wissam Ben Yedder scored twice for the hosts and Kevin Volland added another. PSG have been struggling since their exit from the Champions League in the last-16 at the hands of Real Madrid and they have now lost three of their last five games in Ligue 1. "The way we lost is not acceptable at this level of competition," said PSG coach Pochettino, who did not hold back in his criticism during a fiery press conference. "We can't start a game the way we started this one. You have to get out of the frustration of elimination in the Champions League. You have to think about giving the best of yourself." "It is sporting shame. It can't be repeated. We can still lose matches, but what happened shouldn't and can't happen again because it's serious," he added. With Lionel Messi absent due to illness, Kylian Mbappe was PSG's only bright spot, but the French star was unable to prevent his club from sliding into further chaos. "You have to respect yourself, that's important, if you have a minimum of respect for what you do, for what you want to be, for what you aspire to be," Mbappe said.