China and India should take a long-term view and work together to make respective contributions in promoting peace and stability both in the region and in the world, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Friday while meeting with Indian National Security Adviser Ajit Doval. "Friendly cooperation" should be the "mainstream" for China-India relations, Wang told Doval, mentioning the two countries' history of more than 1,000 years of civilizational exchanges. Both sides should adhere to their two leaders' strategic judgement that China and India should not be a threat to each other, but an opportunity for each other's development, Wang stressed, calling to put border issues in an appropriate position. The two countries should view each other's development with a win-win mentality, Wang also noted. China welcomes India's development and revitalization, and supports India in playing a more important role in international affairs, Wang said, adding that China does not pursue a so-called "unipolar Asia" and respects India's traditional role in the region. China is ready to explore the "China-India Plus" cooperation in South Asia to forge a cooperation-based model with healthy interaction, so as to achieve mutually beneficial and win-win cooperation at a higher level and in a wider range, he said. The Chinese diplomat stressed that the two countries should take part in the multilateral process with a cooperative posture. Noting that this year and the next will witness an "Asia Moment" in global governance, Wang said China and India will host the BRICS Summit and the summits of G20 and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization respectively. He said that when China and India speak with one voice, the whole world will listen, and if the two countries join hands, the whole world will pay attention. The two sides should step up communication, coordination and mutual support to send more positive signals for upholding multilateralism and inject more positive energy into improving global governance, he added. Talks with External Affairs Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar During the visit, Wang Yi also held talks with India's External Affairs Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar in Delhi. As the world enters a new period of turbulence and changes, the two sides should strengthen communication and coordinate positions, safeguard their legitimate interests and the common interests of developing countries, make respective contribution to promote peace and stability around the world, Wang stressed. The two countries should put the differences on the boundary issue in an appropriate position in bilateral relations, and keep the correct direction of bilateral ties, he reiterated. For India's part, Jaishankar said that the Indian side attaches great importance to its relations with China, and is willing to enhance communication and strategic mutual trust with China, push bilateral relations out of a slump as soon as possible and continue to promote practical cooperation between the two countries. Since last year, the two countries have maintained effective diplomatic and military communication. After several rounds of military commander-level talks and consultation and coordination for a working mechanism regarding border affairs, disputes between the two armies ceased in most areas of the western sector of the border, and disengagement in the remaining areas will take place as soon as possible, Jaishankar added. The two diplomats believe that restoring peace and tranquility in border areas is in the common interest of the two countries, calling for normalized management and control on the basis of disengagement and implementation of effective measures to prevent misunderstandings and misjudgments. China and India share the same or similar positions on major international and regional issues, and efforts should be made to understand and support each other, they said. They also exchanged views on epidemic prevention and control, Ukraine, Afghanistan and multilateral affairs. They believed that multilateralism should be adhered to, the UN Charter and international law should be observed, and disputes should be peacefully resolved through dialogue. (With input from Xinhua)