Democracy is not a privilege of certain countries and China's democratic system has helped improve people's lives and development, Guo Weimin, spokesperson for the fifth session of the 13th National Committee of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), said Thursday. Pointing out that the United States is facing problems at home and so-called American democracy is drawing a lot of criticism, Guo said the so-called U.S. "Summit for Democracy" only "creates exclusive blocks, suppresses other countries and divides the world to maintain its hegemonic position." "Democracy comes in diverse forms and it's not a privilege of a few countries," said Guo, adding that "the democratic system of each country should be chosen by its citizens in accordance with its national conditions." "The best democratic system is the one that fits," Guo said. China has formed a socialist democracy with Chinese characteristics over years of development. Through exercising law-based democratic election, democratic consultation, democratic decision-making, democratic management and democratic oversight, China has opened the path of whole-process people's democracy, said Guo. Guo added the political system has helped boost long-term social economic development, gradually improve people's lives and realize social and cultural progress. The CPPCC integrates the functions of consultation, oversight, participation and cooperation, and it promotes science and democracy-based decision-making through democratic consultation, said Guo. Referring to the fact that the CPPCC covers eight democratic parties and public figures without party affiliation, the main people's organizations, 56 ethnic groups and five main religions, Guo said this structure could "ensure all political parties, people's organizations, ethnic groups, social groups and sectors of societies participate in national affairs discussion and promote an extensive and effective people's democracy." The 13th National Committee of the CPPCC, the country's top political advisory body, is set to convene its fifth annual session on March 4. Read more: White paper details complete system of whole-process people's democracy