The Miami Dolphins traded for Super Bowl winner wide receiver (WR) Tyreek Hill by sending five draft picks to the Kansas City Chiefs on Wednesday, reported ESPN's Adam Schefter. "Today starts a new beginning. I'm very excited to be joining the Miami Dolphins and get to work, however it's hard thinking about the memories, people and fans that made my time in Kansas City so great," Hill posted on Twitter. The Dolphins said the deal is pending on a physical. Hill's agent Drew Rosenhaus revealed that his client is offered a four-year, $120-million contract extension, including $72.2 million guaranteed money with $52.535 million at signing. If the deal is done, Hill will become the highest-paid WR in NFL history. Davante Adams, who accepted a five-year, $140-million deal from the Las Vegas Raiders, stayed in that position for only a week. The draft picks the Chiefs will receive are: first rounder (No. 29), second rounder (No. 50) and fourth rounder for 2022 plus fourth rounder and sixth rounder for 2023. The New York Jets were also chasing Hill. According to ESPN, they offered No. 35, 38 and 69 picks for Hill and the Chiefs' No. 103 pick. The Chiefs were satisfied with both offers, so it's likely the player's decision on where he's traded to. Having played six seasons in the league, Hill was named to the Pro Bowl every year. He was also a three-time First-team All-Pro member and selected into the NFL 2010s All-Decade Team in April 2020. On February 2, 2020, Hill and the Chiefs beat the San Francisco 49ers 31-20 in Super Bowl LIV at Hard Rock Stadium to pocket his first ring. Hill achieved over 1,000 receiving yards in four of six the seasons in his career. His presence will give the Dolphins' quarterback Tua Tagovailoa one of best options to target at in offense. The team already has Jaylen Waddle and signed free agent Cedrick Wilson in the WR position and added two running backs Chase Edmonds and Raheem Mostert to their franchise. You could tell by the Dolphins' efforts they are desperate to make a difference in the new season. "It's hard to put into words what Tyreek has meant to Chiefs Kingdom over the last six years," Chiefs General Manager Brett Veach said in a statement. "He's a special player, one of the best in franchise history. He's been a large part of our success, including our Super Bowl championship run. This decision was incredibly difficult, but we felt it was a necessary move in the best interest of the team, and also for Tyreek. We wish him the best as he continues his career." "I am happy for Tyreek, he has grown as a man and player here in Kansas City," Chiefs Head Coach Andy Reid said. "Myself, my staff and our organization appreciate all he did for our team. This move will also benefit the Chiefs, we now have cap space and additional draft picks to grow as a football team. I wish him well as he moves forward." "Kansas City will always hold a special place in my heart!" Hill tweeted.