Seven-time Super Bowl winner Tom Brady announced his return from retirement to rejoin the Tampa Bay Buccaneers on Sunday. "These past two months, I've realized my place is still on the field and not in the stands. That time will come. But it's not now. I love my teammates, and I love my supportive family. They make it all possible. I'm coming back for my 23rd season in Tampa. Unfinished business LFG," Brady posted on Twitter. Brady chose a key timing to make the announcement when it's less than two days before the 2022 NFL free agency begins. The Bucs are looking at a long list of their players who are likely to head to the market: tight end Rob Gronkowski, right guard Alex Cappa, cornerback Carlton Davis, running back Leonard Fournette, safety Jordan Whitehead, defensive lineman Ndamukong Suh and outside linebacker Jason Pierre-Paul. Though it will still be very difficult for the Bucs to keep all of them with only $11 million of salary space, the return of the Greatest Player of All Time (GOAT) will be beneficial to convincing some members to stay. "[Head coach Bruce Arians] and I have had plenty of conversations with Tom recently that led us to believe there was a realistic chance he would want to come back," Bucs general manager Jason Licht said. "Tom is the greatest quarterback of all time who is still playing at an elite level. With this decision now made, we will continue to move forward with our offseason plans to reload this roster for another championship run." "Tom Brady loves to play football as much as anyone I have ever been around," Arians said. "As Tom said, his place right now is on the football field." Before Brady retired, he already led the league in all-time passing yards (84,520), passing touchdowns (TDs) (624), and, of course, Super Bowl titles (seven). In his last season in 2021, he was also the leader in passing yards (5,316), TDs (43), completions (485) and attempts (719). Though the Bucs lost to the Los Angeles Rams in the Divisional playoffs last season, Brady's performance was still at an MVP level, despite his 44-year-old age.