When sports are less related to points and medals, athletic excellence and diversity came to co-exist during the recently concluded Winter Paralympics in Beijing. Numerous inspiring Paralympians realized their dream and challenged their limits at the Games between March 4 and 13. Norway's Jesper Pedersen finished as the most successful athlete overall with four golds and one silver. He reached the top of the podium in all but the downhill event in the men's sitting competition of para alpine skiing. "I exceeded all expectations. Of course this is what I've been dreaming for the last couple of years, but to be able to have such good events here and in Hafjell (2022 World Championships) as well, it's been just amazing for me," the Paralympic.org quoted the 22-year-old para skier. Yang Hongqiong, the flagbearer of Team China at the closing ceremony, clinched gold medals in all three women's para cross-country skiing individual sitting competitions of long distance, middle distance and sprint events. She was a wheelchair basketball player before switching to para cross-country skiing in 2018 and made her debut at the Beijing Winter Paralympics. "I can't believe it. This is so surreal," Yang said after winning her first gold medal in the long distance. "With this medal, we've proved that team China has unlimited potential for winter sports." Austria's Aigner siblings had a great family honor in the Games. "Veronika Aigner, 19, and her guide and older sister Elisabeth, along with their twin siblings Johannes and Barbara, 16, collected nine medals in their Paralympic debut with proud parents Christian and Petra cheering from the stands," quoted Paralympic.org. "I've always said I'm not in it for the medals, it's for the experiences," said Brian McKeever of Canada. He first topped the podium at Salt Lake City 2002 and equaled the record of German para alpine skier Gerd Schoenfelder with 16 golds. "We're just happy to be here. After 20 years of doing this, it's an honor to be a part of the Paralympics." Team USA won the men's para ice hockey with a 5-0 victory over Team Canada while Team China took the bronze medal. "I'm so excited! It wasn't easy to win this medal. We're all very excited to have won this precious medal by working together. No matter what time, I always keep smiling from the heart. A smile can bring different feelings to others. And at the same time, it relieves my stress and brings me joy," Shen Yifeng, a member of Chinese Winter Paralympic Ice Hockey Team, told CGTN in an exclusive interview. Team China defended their wheelchair curling gold on March 12. After their victory, Chinese skipper Wang Haitao said, "I'm very happy and very thrilled. Four years ago we didn't have too much pressure, but today we were playing at home, so it just put us under a lot of pressure, but luckily, we made it." Read more: A brief history of Winter Paralympics Stunning views of Beijing 2022 Winter Paralympic Games opening ceremony Beijing 2022: Splendors at closing ceremony of Winter Paralympic Games