China's top political advisory body on Friday pledged to promote high-quality development with high-quality recommendations when outlining its tasks for 2022. Wang Yang, chairman of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) National Committee, made the remarks while delivering a work report of the Standing Committee of the CPPCC National Committee at the opening meeting of the fifth session of the 13th CPPCC National Committee. "The year 2022 is an important year for embarking on the new journey toward the Second Centenary Goal of building China into a modern socialist country in all respects, and the year in which the Communist Party of China (CPC) will hold its 20th National Congress," he noted. With this in mind, the CPPCC has listed a slew of tasks for itself in 2022, among which promoting high-quality development with high-quality recommendations is an important one, according to Wang. On advancing green and low-carbon development and high-quality development in a coordinated manner, as well as on the continued implementation of the employment-first policy, the CPPCC will hold consultative meetings of the Standing Committee. The body will also conduct consultations on promoting the healthy development of the digital economy and further implementing the strategy to develop a high-caliber workforce in the new era. Focusing on topics such as promoting the sound development of rural healthcare, fully leveraging the role of vocational education in rural revitalization, advancing the development of the Yellow River National Cultural Park, and strengthening people-to-people exchanges with Belt and Road partner countries, the CPPCC will carry out in-depth studies and discussions through various forms of consultation such as biweekly consultative forums, online consultations, proposal handling consultations, and consultative meetings with relevant departments. "We will continue to follow the principle of conducting research before consultations take place and work hard to make research more in-depth and effective," Wang said. The body will also improve the mechanism of expert consultations and carry out forward-looking research and in-depth consultation on finding pathways to common prosperity, developing renewable energy, stepping up efforts to make original breakthroughs in cutting-edge science and technology, responding to issues of population aging, and promoting the protection and utilization of immovable cultural relics, he said. "We will continue to exercise democratic oversight on the implementation of the 14th Five-Year Plan, with a view to finding problems, suggesting improvements, and assisting in the implementation of initiatives," he added.