China and Zambia should expand cooperation in emerging areas, such as modern agriculture, manufacturing, and renewable energy, said State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Saturday. He made the remarks when meeting with Zambian Minister of Foreign Affairs and International Cooperation Stanley Kasongo Kakubo in east China's Anhui Province. Noting that Kakubo is the first foreign minister of a sub-Saharan African country to visit China since the coronavirus outbreak, Wang hailed the traditional friendship between China and Zambia. China-Zambia relations have become a benchmark of China-Africa friendship and a model of South-South cooperation, he said. China hopes Zambia will create a sound business environment for Chinese companies and China will continue to provide support to Zambia's economic and social development within its capacity, he added. Kakubo congratulated China on successfully hosting the Beijing Winter Olympics. Zambia thanks China for its firm support in the country's fight against the pandemic, and the vaccines provided by China have helped Zambia dramatically increase its vaccination rate from less than 3 percent to over 22 percent, he said. In deepening bilateral practical cooperation, he said that his country expects China to expand investment and trade in Zambia. He also spoke highly of China's long-term contribution to the development of the African continent, saying that Zambia is willing to work with China to uphold and respect the sovereignty and territorial integrity of all countries. The two sides agreed that the Tanzania-Zambia railway is a good example of the sincere friendship between China and Africa and vowed to make joint efforts in running the railway well. The two sides also exchanged views on the ongoing Ukraine crisis. Wang elaborated on China's position on the issue. Kakubo agreed that the conflicts should be solved through diplomatic negotiations, and expects China to continue to play a constructive role during the process towards peace.