The Russia-Ukraine conflict continues on Saturday as relevant parties are working to broker a peaceful solution. Russian President Vladimir Putin had a telephone conversation with Prime Minister of Luxembourg, Xavier Bettel, on Saturday, declaring the "unacceptable nature" of the military-biological activities of the United States in Ukraine. Meanwhile, Vyacheslav Volodin, chairman of Russia's lower house of parliament, said Saturday that the United States and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) must stop supplying weapons and sending mercenaries to Ukraine. Russian Defense Ministry announced the use of the Kinzhal hypersonic missiles to destroy a large warehouse of missiles and aviation ammunition of Ukrainian troops in the Ivano-Frankivsk region, according to Russian state news agency RIA Novosti. According to RIA, it was the first use of the Kinzhal hypersonic weapons since the start of Moscow's "special military operation" in Ukraine. Russian presidential aide Vladimir Medinsky, also head of the Russian delegation in several rounds of talks with Ukraine, said Friday that the two sides have moved closer to agreement on the key issue of Ukraine dropping attempts to join NATO and adopting a neutral status. For the Ukrainian side, President Volodymyr Zelenskyy called for comprehensive peace talks with Moscow, saying Russia would otherwise need generations to recover from losses suffered during the war. Ukraine's defense ministry admitted it had "temporarily" lost access to the Sea of Azov while Deputy Prime Minister Iryna Vereshchuk said that Ukraine hopes to evacuate civilians on Saturday via 10 humanitarian corridors from cities and towns on the front line of fighting with Russian forces. Presidential Advisor Mykhailo Podolyak said on Friday that Ukraine's positions at the peace talks with Russia remain unchanged. "Our positions remain unchanged: a ceasefire, the withdrawal of troops and strict security guarantees with specific formulas," Podolyak, also a member of the Ukrainian delegation to the peace talks with Russia, tweeted. The fourth round of negotiations between Ukrainian and Russian delegations started on Monday via video link. (With input from agencies) (Cover: A woman walks near humanitarian help tents at the border checkpoint in Medyka, Poland, March 19, 2022. /Reuters)