A Chinese envoy on Friday called on parties to the Ukraine conflict to act with caution and work together with the assistance of the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA) to ensure the safety of nuclear facilities inside Ukraine. China pays close attention to the latest developments in Ukraine and expresses its concern over reports about the Zaporizhzhia nuclear power plant, Zhang Jun, China's permanent representative to the United Nations, said. According to information the IAEA received from the Ukrainian nuclear authority, the main equipment of the nuclear power plant remains intact, and the level of radiation is unchanged. China also takes note of the information and clarification provided by Russia on the relevant matters, Zhang told a Security Council emergency meeting. Noting that the Ukraine crisis is still undergoing complex changes, he said the most important thing right now is to ease tension, avoid more civilian casualties, intensify diplomatic efforts and get back as soon as possible to the track of political settlement. Russia and Ukraine have held two rounds of direct dialogue and negotiations and have reached preliminary agreement on setting up humanitarian corridors. Zhang said China welcomes this and hopes that it can facilitate better protection of civilians and help with the safe evacuation of all foreign nationals, including Chinese nationals. He added that China encourages Russia and Ukraine to remain committed to the overall direction of political settlement and reach a negotiated solution that accommodates the legitimate concerns of the two parties and contributes to Europe's lasting peace and security. China welcomes all diplomatic efforts conducive to a political settlement and will continue to play a constructive role to this end, Zhang said. The international community should stay cool-headed and rational, and adopt a responsible, impartial and objective attitude to create a sound atmosphere and conditions for direct negotiations between the parties concerned, he said. "Any action must contribute to de-escalation and diplomatic settlement, rather than adding fuel to fire, leading to further escalation and deterioration of the situation." Read more: IAEA: No radioactive leak from Russian seized nuclear power plant in Ukraine Russian troops in control following battle at Ukraine's largest nuclear power plant