The Chinese wheelchair curling team said it wasn't easy to defend the Paralympic title during the Beijing 2022, but teamwork and a calm and steady mindset helped them achieve the goal against other powerhouses. "We had 12 matches. Ten of them were in round-robin play, and the first two were against Canada and Sweden. Because of the pressure on us, we tended to make more mistakes," the team's coach Yue Qingshuang said in an exclusive interview with CGTN. "There were few spectators during the last world championships here in October. This time, the venue 'Ice Cube' was almost full of people. Their support brought some pressure," said the team's skip Wang Haitao. After a poor start against Canada and Sweden, the team regrouped and made a comeback to clinch consecutive wins until the end of the games. "We were very united. If there were any mistakes, pressure or even changes in fortune during competition, we helped each other to relax and [high-fived each other] or gave pats on the shoulders," said the team's lead Yan Zhuo. "Before PyeongChang 2018, our best ranking was No. 4. So, we tried our best and won the gold medal there. Then, over the next four years, we worked to defend it. When we got to the semifinal, we told each other to try our best to defend the gold medal," Wang said. Coach Yue attributes their success to both hard work and a positive outlook. "We adjusted our mental attitude in the semifinal because we met Canada again," she said. "This was just like the one in PyeongChang 2018. Then, what we did, in fact, was present ourselves well and have a good attitude." She sang a popular Chinese song "Lasso Pole" to her team before the semifinal because in her eyes they are like warriors on horseback. Before the final on March 12 against Sweden, she sang another song titled "Flame." She explained that it was not easy to defend the Paralympic title, and Team China needed to keep calm and learn to be patient. "I sang it back in 2018, and it's a winning song," Yue said. (Cover: L-R: Gold medalists Sun Yulong, Yan Zhuo, Zhang Mingliang, Chen Jianxin, and Wang Haitao of Team China celebrate on the podium after winning the wheelchair curling final during the Beijing 2022 Winter Paralympics at the National Aquatics Center in Beijing, China, March 12, 2022. /CFP)