French midfielder Paul Pogba of Manchester United said French football show Telefoot the fact that he has won so few titles at the club level in the past six years bothers him and he wants to play for something. "The truth has to be said – there have been difficult times, especially when I was at Manchester," he said. "When I haven't played or when the results weren't there, coming here [the French squad] gives me a boost." Most of Pogba's club honors were won back in his days in Juventus, which included four Serie A titles and two Coppa Italia championships. Since he joined United at 105 million euros (about $115.4 million) in 2016, the team only had two trophies, one Carabao Cup title and one UEFA Europa League championship, both in the 2016-17 season. The last time United won nothing in five straight seasons happened 40 years ago. Unfortunately, it does seem to change this season because they were knocked out from both the UEFA Champions League and the FA Cup while trailing by 20 points behind Manchester City in Premier League with nine games to go. Pogba's performance has been declining year by year as well. Having played only 23 games in all events for United so far this season, he only scored one goal and nine assists. As the fifth-best paid player of the team, he often started off the bench and still couldn't make valuable contributions to the team. "It's difficult because a lot has happened, from the change in manager to my injury. We're no longer fighting for a title, so it's neutral," Pogba said. "I want to win titles, I want to play for something. Whether it be this year or even the previous ones, we haven't won anything. That's what's sad, in the end." Pogba's contract with United will come due this summer. So far, there is no sign of the two sides making progress in reaching an extension. On the contrary, Pogba was involved in transfer news during almost every transfer window in the past three years. He is likely to become a free agent on June 30 if no deal is reached with United. "Nothing is decided on my future, nothing is done. I can decide tomorrow, just as I can decide during the transfer window. I want to bounce back and finish the season well," Pogba said. Pogba is currently with the French national team preparing for the warm-up game with South Africa on Wednesday. Back in 2018, he won the championship of the FIFA World Cup in Russia with Les Bleus (The Blues). The elimination from the UEFA European Championship in 2021 was not pretty, but Pogba and his teammates will have the chance to secure salvation at the World Cup in Qatar at the end of the year.