Editor's note: Wang Zhongying is the deputy director-general of the Energy Research Institute of the National Development and Reform Commission of China. Liu Jian is an associate researcher at the same institute. The article reflects the authors' opinions and not necessarily those of CGTN. Under the initiative to achieve the country's peak carbon emissions by 2030 and carbon neutrality by 2060, the new energy vehicle (NEV) industry in China carries an important historic mission on its shoulders. It is not only a pillar industry for economic development, but also a major force for rewriting the history of China's automobile manufacturing industry and building a low-carbon future. China is the world's largest auto market, with nearly 30 million vehicles produced and sold each year, but nearly 90 percent of them are fossil fuel vehicles and they are dominated by foreign brands. Almost all well-known foreign brands and top manufacturers have joint ventures in China. With more than a century of development, internal combustion engine (ICE) vehicle technology is very well established. It is unrealistic to think that home-grown brands can wade into the ICE vehicle market and dominate it. On the one hand, domestic companies missed the historic opportunity to catch up with foreign peers on ICE technology; on the other hand, the global trend toward low-carbon development has become irreversible, and it is now a global consensus to take the path of eco-friendly and low-carbon development. It is expected that in about 10 years, fossil fuel vehicles will have given up half of their market share to NEVs, and by 2040, mainstream manufacturers will no longer sell vehicles powered by fossil fuels. Therefore, the development of NEVs, especially electric vehicles, has brought new opportunities for the development of China's automobile manufacturing industry. After more than a decade of development, China is now the world's largest market for NEVs. In 2020, more than 10 million NEVs were in circulation around the world, and China accounted for nearly half. In 2021, despite the impact of the pandemic and the chip shortage, China's NEV market bucked the global downtrend and registered positive growth, with annual sales jumping to 3.52 million units, up 1.6 times year-on-year, and accounting for 13 percent of all new vehicles sold. In the coming years, China's NEV market will enter a period of rapid growth, with a projected adoption rate of over 25 percent by 2025. At the 26th UN Conference of the Parties on Climate Change (COP26) in Glasgow, a number of countries, including Austria, Denmark, Finland, Sweden, the Netherlands and Norway, signed a pledge that they will work towards all sales of new cars and vans being zero emission by 2040 or earlier. In fact, before COP26, numerous well-known manufacturers around the world, such as Mercedes-Benz, Volkswagen, BMW and Ford, had already proposed timetables for ending the production of fossil fuel vehicles. To achieve carbon neutrality, energy systems must eventually achieve net-zero emissions. So the phase-out of fossil fuel vehicles from the market is an inevitable trend in history. In China's case, actions always speak louder than words. Although China did not sign the agreement on the phasing-out of fossil fuel vehicles at COP26, the Chinese government attaches great importance to the development of NEVs and has set a clear development course for the industry. In particular, the development and adoption of electric vehicles in China are already leading the world. From a strategic point of view, the development of China's NEV industry is important not only because it can contribute to the low-carbon transformation of the transport sector, but also because electric vehicles can serve as energy storage facilities to support the new electric power system. NEVs can be integrated into the new power system to promote the massive development of wind, solar and other renewable energy sources. To achieve the goal on peak emissions and carbon neutrality, China's economy and society will undergo a profound systemic change, and the integration of NEVs with the power system will be an important catalyst for accelerating this transformation. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)