After 36 years, the drought is finally over. Canada have returned to international football's biggest event for the first time since 1986 following an emphatic 4-0 win over Jamaica at the final stage of 2022 World Cup qualifiers on Sunday night. John Herdman's side had gone unbeaten throughout the entirety of the qualification process until Thursday's rare defeat in Costa Rica, thus missing out a chance to secure a spot in Qatar with two games to spare. Urged on by a sold-out crowd at a festive BMO Field, they left no doubt this time around. Besiktas striker Cyle Larin and Brugge youngster Tajon Buchanan put Canada 2-0 up at half-time before Reading veteran Junior Hoilett and an Adrian Mariappa own goal sealed the hugely deserved victory. Just as remarkable is the fact that Canada became the first North American nation to book a ticket to Qatar, while traditional regional powerhouses, the U.S. and Mexico, are still in contention for the final two automatic qualification spots. Toronto FC midfielder Jonathan Osorio could not hide his excitement at this impressive feat. "Speechless. Dream come true," he said. "We all dreamed of this as little kids, and as a Canadian that was impossible. Today the impossible happened. It's an incredible feeling." Canada's stunning progress represented another milestone for Herdman, who coached the country's women's team from 2011-18. He has became the first coach in history to lead both a men's and women's team to earn a World Cup spot. "Canada is a football nation, man. We better believe it," beamed Herdman post-game. "And we're going to keep coming. We've only gotten started. I'm just happy for these lads. When I first took over and I said 'We're going to go to the World Cup, we'll qualify.' I don't think they believed me." Canada's last and only World Cup appearance came at Mexico 1986, where they finished bottom of their group with three straight defeats. It's been a long journey for the football minnows, who ranked only 78th four years ago. "We've been through some tough times," Herdman observed. "I've knocked on doors to ask for money for this team, and we did it. And we just kept believing. I'm happy because all of these fans have waited and waited and waited, and hung in with us and we're going."