The Buffalo Bills have reached agreement with two-time Super Bowl winner linebacker Von Miller for him to join on a six-year contract, the team announced on Wednesday. Multiple sources revealed that Miller's deal is worth $120 million, including $51.5 million guaranteed, and $45 million of it will be fully guaranteed at signing, according to ESPN's Adam Schefter. Miller became the first defensive player who has two plus $100-million contracts in his career. The Bills invested heavily in enhancing their ends in the drafts for the past years, but they lacked a leader-type guy until Miller arrived. Having won his second Super Bowl title with the Los Angeles Rams last season, Miller had 41 pressures, which was already more than anyone else on the Bills' franchise. His pass rush win rate in the playoffs was 41.5 percent, the best of anyone since 2017. Both Miller and Aaron Donald accomplished 18 pressures during the four victories of the Rams in the postseason. "I'm always gonna put resources in the front. It's just how I believe it should be built," Bills general manager Brandon Beane said earlier. "And don't ever be shocked if you see us trying to add there, free agency or the draft, at any point." The Bills did well enough last season on offense. They were fifth in total yards (6,493), fourth in first downs (398), ninth in passing yards (4,284) and sixth in rushing yards (2,209). Their quarterback Josh Allen passed for 4,407 yards and 36 touchdowns with a completion rate of 62.3 percent. Now that they added Miller to the squad, the Bills are expected to grow more aggressive on defense. The team also acquired a veteran tight end O.J. Howard who played for the Tampa Bay Buccaneers last season. ESPN revealed that Howard got a one-year, $3.5-million deal that could be worth up to $5 million. The Bucs, which had the Greatest Player of All Time (GOAT) Tom Brady back, kept their franchise wide receiver Chris Godwin with a three-year, $60-million contract, according to Schefter and Jenna Laine. As much as $40 million of Godwin's salary will be guaranteed at signing. Godwin led the Bucs' franchise in receiving yards (1,103) and receptions (98) though he suffered season-ending ACL injury in Week 15. One of the reasons the Bucs lost to the Rams in the National Football Conference Divisional game was lack of firepower to pair Brady. Keeping Godwin will be much helpful to the 44-year-old's drive for his eighth Super Bowl title. "Knowing Chris and the way he works – he had a good surgery, and those guys are coming back faster and faster now – I don't think that's going to be a problem at all," Bucs head coach Bruce Arians said.