The Golden State Warriors beat the Milwaukee Bucks 122-109 at Chase Center on Saturday to secure their third straight win. Klay Thompson shot 8-for-14 from downtown, including draining five triples in the second quarter alone, to score a season-high 38 points. While he was shooting to kill at the 3-point line, Thompson also punished the Bucks' defense by making seven 2-point jumpers. It's his best shooting game since returning from injuries in January. "I was eager for a night like this," Thompson said. "But a mid-season shooting slump is not going to kill my ego, I'm still going to go out there and compete." "I'm sure it's a relief," Warriors head coach Steve Kerr said of Thompson's performance. "He's so hard on himself and wants so badly to succeed." Kerr, who has been preferring to stick to his own style instead of adapting according to the opponent's, made changes to the Warriors' squad in Saturday's game by putting Jordan Poole in the starting lineup. Poole responded to the coach's trust with five 3-pointers and 30 points. Kerr must also be happy to see that Andrew Wiggins stepped out of his recent slump; his 3-point shooting percentage and free throw percentage dropped to 30.8 and 25 percent, respectively, after the All-Star break. On Friday night, Wiggins shot 8-for-16 from the field for 21 points and six rebounds. While three of his starting teammates were productive on offense, Stephen Curry enjoyed being a distraction and orchestrator who only took seven shots but delivered eight assists. While the Bucks stopped at nothing to trap him, other Warriors gave full play to their signature give-and-go system. Six of the team's players delivered four or more assists in Friday's game. "It's crazy when an MVP only has eight points and we still win against a really, really, really good team," Poole said. Compared with Curry, Giannis Antetokounmpo felt very lonely as the Bucks' leader. The Greek Freak was still unstoppable as an individual, shooting 12-for-18 in free throws to score 31 points, but the other two of the Big Three, Khris Middleton and Jrue Holiday, failed to play their role. Middleton shot 4-for-9 behind the arc, which was good, but he missed seven of his nine signature mid-range jumpers. Holiday was efficient in both field goals (5-11) and 3-pointers (2-5) was okay, but earning only two free throws limited his offensive production. The Bucks lost strength with an injury to DeAndre' Bembry, who injured his right knee when he leaped to defend Poole's 3-pointer in the third quarter. He returned to the locker room with the support of teammates and apparently couldn't bear weight on his right leg. Bembry will undergo an MRI exam on Sunday. Caruso returns to bolster Bulls defense The Chicago Bulls defeated the Cleveland Cavaliers 101-91 at United Center on Saturday to claim victory in a ranking-related game in the Eastern Conference. After this win, the Bulls are fourth in the East with a 41-26 record, three games above the sixth-ranked Cavaliers (38-29). Alex Caruso returned for the Bulls after resting for 50 days due to a fractured right wrist. He made an immediate defensive impact with four steals and one block off the bench. With Zach LaVine sitting out the game, Caruso also shared part of the orchestrating duties with four assists. "It felt great," Caruso said. "I'm excited to just play basketball again. Caught myself just walking onto the court for pregame warmups just kind of smiling, just excited to be out there. When the game started, I was standing up for random plays that probably didn't need to be cheered for." DeMar DeRozan and Nikola Vucevic took over on offense for the Bulls, combining for 45 points, 18 rebounds and six assists. DeRozan had a rough shooting night, but his nine points in the second quarter helped the team hold a safe lead in a low-scoring game. The Cavaliers committed 14 turnovers, which resulted in 19 fast-break points for the opponents. Without Jarrett Allen, who suffered a fracture in his left middle finger, the team lacked a solid presence inside, for both offense and defense. Their first-year big man, Evan Mobley, still lacks a reliable method to score around the rim. The Cavaliers shooting 5-for-24 at the 3-point line was not helpful either. The team still has the fourth-best defense rating (107.8) and allows only 103.7 points per game, the second fewest in the league. However, it's hard to win in today's NBA when you can't score 100 points. Other games on Saturday (away teams come first): Minnesota Timberwolves 113-104 Miami Heat Indiana Pacers 119-108 San Antonio Spurs Toronto Raptors 127-115 Denver Nuggets Sacramento Kings 125-134 Utah Jazz Washington Wizards 118-127 Portland Trail Blazers