Yin Hong and Lu Chenhui always run side by side. Yin is 67. Lu is 26 and blind, relying on Yin's guidance to run safely. Yin has been running for 23 years. She said this idea came to her when she saw people running with blind people in the Tokyo Marathon and the Seoul Marathon. "I'm getting old, I couldn't run that fast, but I could do something meaningful in these marathons," Yin told herself. Yin has been a guide runner for almost seven years and she's accompanied over 20 visually impaired runners. Yin has helped Lu so much. "About 100 or more people have run with me since I started. Then I met Hong. I first heard about her at the end of 2015," Lu said, referring to Yin by her first name. Connected by a tether, mile by mile, the two bonded. She has been his eyes and always in his ear. Last year, they ran 108 kilometers in the Gobi Desert. Yin recalled one thing that impressed her the most. "I didn't finish the Hong Kong Marathon in 2017. The first person who comforted me was Chenhui. I was really touched." "Normally, people wait for the news, but he found out from my WeChat step counter that I had only 30,000 steps. So he knew I didn't finish the competition and asked me about it." "I told him I didn't finish, though this competition is really important to me. The next day was my 63rd birthday, I was really moved and burst into tears," Yin said. "Chenhui is caring and grateful. This is the biggest basis for us to accompany each other. I'm moved by him and he is also moved by me. It's not just about running with or being escorted. We are very good friends, and you could say he is like a son to me," she added. "After I got to know Hong, it wasn't just running for the sake of running. Really, the whole process of running is a kind of emotional exchange, so I think the happiest thing about running together is that we can chat together, and talk about her thoughts," Lu said. Yin has run 87 marathons, she keeps giving back doing things she loves, and she's respected and loved by her friends. "They are all talking about my first 100 marathons, they want 100 people to run with me, I am very moved," Yin said, adding that the runners are influencing each other. United as one person, Yin said Lu cannot see, but he had a vision, he just needed a little help.