The Industrial Internet (II), which uses inter-connected smart sensors, devices and data analytics to improve productivity, has changed the way industrial companies operate and is powering the global industry chain into a new era. By the end of 2021, there were more than 76 million sets of connected equipment and over 2,000 5G+ industrial internet projects under construction in China. The country's II has entered the fast lane, fitting into 40 major sectors in the national economy. Big enterprises in China play a key role in driving such technological interconnections, supporting China's high-quality development. "We've set a three-stage intellectualization planning. The first stage is single-machine intellectualization. The second is to intellectualize machine clusters and human-machine coordinated operations. The third aim is to build 'smart construction sites' where we've made huge technological breakthroughs,” said Liu Yanbin, deputy director of Zoomlion Construction and Machinery Research Center. By applying the Internet of Things and Artificial Intelligence, all production steps are interconnected through smart technologies. Workers only need to monitor the process in the control room. The company can easily manage, synergize, and evaluate the overall construction process by featuring key technologies and building II platforms. Yu Lihu, director of Zoomlion Research Institute, told CGTN that the whole intellectualized technologies are integrated into their products, including the smart robotic system, control rooms, and AI enabling. As a result, the company could empower the clients home and abroad by improving efficiency and reducing operating costs. China's construction machinery has become one of the largest contributors internationally in terms of business and intellectualization. "China is leading the industry. There has been strong progress in the construction of 5G base stations and connected equipment. Meanwhile, China's huge construction market provides us with various cases, which in turn pushes forward innovation," Lou Xianzhi, vice manager of Zoomline Cranes Machines Technical Center, said.