Chinese tech giant Huawei vows to survive with high-quality development and continuous inputs in innovation and sustainability, despite mounting pressures this year. Faced with growing difficulties, including geopolitical conflicts, lasting pandemic impacts, and global inflation, Huawei must maintain steady operation, Ken Hu, the company's Rotating Chairman said at Huawei's annual Global Analyst Summit in Shenzhen on Tuesday. To achieve that, Huawei will manage the quality of deals and give up some low-quality ones, he said. Meanwhile, with a more diversified business portfolio, Huawei will shut down those of low-quality growth, he added. Due to the U.S. sanctions, Huawei's smartphone business has dropped sharply in the past two years but the company has been working on other devices and software, Hu said, noting the shipments of wearables and tablets have seen growth. Huawei's revenue from consumer business dropped 49.6 percent year on year in 2021, according to its earnings report published in March. At the summit, Huawei announced its vision for F5.5G, an upgrade on the 5G network, to increase network connection bandwidth by ten folds by 2025, covering both mobile and fixed-line networks. "We believe that digital technology will develop at a rate of over 100 fold per decade," Zhou Hong, President of Huawei's Institute of Strategic Research, said at the summit. He listed 10 challenges of broader scientific and technological inquiry, including how to teach machines to understand the world and how technology can reform healthcare, computing, and energy. Huawei published a Green Development 2030 report on Wednesday, outlining how information and communications technology (ICT) can empower green development. The report said that green digital infrastructure is becoming a basic requirement and improving the energy efficiency of digital infrastructure is a major pathway for future ICT innovation to empower green development. "ICT has the potential to enable a 20-percent reduction of global CO2e (carbon dioxide equivalent) emissions by 2030, hold emissions at 2015 levels, and effectively decouple economic growth from emissions growth. This means that the impact of ICT solutions is nearly 10 times higher than ICT's expected footprint in 2030," Luis Neves, CEO of Global Enabling Sustainability Initiative (GeSI) said in the report.