Noting that the latest human rights report by the U.S. and U.S. Secretary Antony Blinken's statement are full of political lies and ideological bias, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said on Wednesday that China is strongly dissatisfied with and firmly opposes to the report. He made the comments at a regular press briefing in response to the "2021 Country Report on Human Rights Practices" issued by the U.S., as well as Blinken's related remarks, both of which said that China continues "genocide" on Uygurs in Xinjiang, "dismantling the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region's (HKSAR) political freedoms and autonomy" and carrying out "systematic repression" in Tibet. The international community and Chinese people have both seen the governance capacity of the Chinese government and China's human rights situation, which cannot be denigrated by any report or some words, Zhao reiterated. To portray itself as a human rights benchmark, the U.S. government has been using the so-called human rights reports to defame China and other countries every year, exposing the hypocrisy and double standards of the U.S. side, Zhao said, adding that human rights are the blank checks that the U.S. government has never fulfilled. Zhao continued that instead of combating the pandemic, the U.S. government engaged in political manipulation, raised the rumor of laboratory leak of the virus, leading to a high incidence of anti-Asian hate crimes. "The U.S., with the most advanced medical equipment and technology in the world, has the highest number of the COVID-19 infections and deaths in the world," Zhao said. Nothing that human rights are also the fig leaves for the U.S. government to promote its hegemony, Zhao said that in the U.S., gun violence, unfair law enforcement, prison abuse and other phenomena occur frequently and the American people live in fear and lack of safety. Meanwhile, the subversive actions and wars outside the country have led to over 2 million refugees fleeing homes in Afghan, Iraq and Syria. Over 900,000 people lost lives during the so-called wars against terrorists over the past 20 years waged by the U.S. government, according to the spokesperson. What the U.S. should do now is to stop pointing fingers at and slandering other countries, earnestly introspect itself and do something beneficial to improve its own human rights situation and make a contribution to the healthy development of international human rights affairs.