China's anti-epidemic policy is in keeping with its national realities, meets the need for combating COVID-19, works effectively and contributes significantly to the global fight against the pandemic, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson said on Monday. As China continues to implement its dynamic zero-COVID policy amid a surge in COVID-19 cases, some have questioned if the approach is starting to lose its effectiveness and wondered if China would move towards a new policy. Spokesperson Zhao Lijian, speaking at a regular press conference, responded that as the world continues to grapple with resurgence of the COVID-19 pandemic, the Chinese government puts people and life front and center and follows the dynamic zero policy, which demonstrates its sense of responsibility for people in China and the rest of the world. Over two years into the pandemic, China stands as one of the countries with the lowest infection rates and mortality rates, he pointed out. According to Zhao, a senior World Health Organization (WHO) official recently said that China has adopted very powerful measures to curb COVID-19, registering a very low infection rate, mortality rate and hospitalization rate. The spokesperson added that the official said that even amid the pandemic, China's economy and society operated well and the Chinese government offered the maximum protection for its people. As for the epidemic situation in Shanghai, the spokesperson said both the central and local governments attach high importance to addressing the situation in the city. He noted that a large number of medical staff and volunteers, as well as huge quantities of supplies, have also come to the rescue of Shanghai from all across the country. Zhao said he believes that with the leadership of the Communist Party of China, the solidarity of the whole nation and assistance from localities across the country, Shanghai will soon bring the epidemic under control. He also voiced confidence in curbing infections elsewhere in China. "There is an end to every pandemic and every war," the spokesperson added. (Cover: Patients who have recovered from COVID-19 leave a temporary hospital in Shanghai, east China, April 9, 2022. /Xinhua)