Barely 24 hours after Liverpool took a giant step toward their third Champions League final in five seasons by outclassing Spanish outfit Villarreal, the Reds' supporters across the world received another piece of fantastic news, that their manager Jurgen Klopp, arguably the most important figure at Anfield in the last decade, has signed a contract extension that will keep him at the club until 2026. The German tactician, whose previous deal was due to expire in 2024, is set to be at the helm for at least 11 years, making him Liverpool’s fourth longest-serving manager in history. Klopp's quadruple-chasing Liverpool have already won the League Cup, are one point behind Manchester City at the top of the Premier League, will face Chelsea in next month's FA Cup final and have one foot in the Champions League final. "Like any healthy relationship, it always has to be a two-way street; you have to be right for each other," Klopp said in a statement. "The feeling we were absolutely right for each other is what brought me here in the first place and it's why I've extended previously." "This one is different because of the length of time we have been together. I had to ask myself the question: Is it right for Liverpool that I stay longer? Along with my two assistant managers, Pep Lijnders and Pete Krawietz, we came to the conclusion it was a 'Yes!'" Klopp lifted the Champions League, Club World Cup and Super Cup with Liverpool in 2019, before clinching the Premier League title in 2020. The 54-year-old described himself as "delighted, humbled, blessed, privileged and excited" by the deal. "There is a freshness about us as a club still and this energizes me. For as long as I have been here, our owners have been unbelievably committed and energetic about this club and it is clear that right now this applies to our future as much as I've ever known," he added. "When the owners brought the possibility to renew to me, I asked myself the question I've mused over publicly. Do I have the energy and vibe to give of myself again what this amazing place requires from the person in the manager's office? I didn't need too long to answer in truth."