AC Milan lead Serie A by a single point after failing to get past mid-table Bologna on Monday, a goalless draw the latest twist in a thrilling title race which looks to be heading to the wire. After dropping two precious points Stefano Pioli's side hold a slender lead over second-placed Napoli, who ran out impressive 3-1 winners at Atalanta on Sunday afternoon and are now snapping at Milan's heels. Defending champions Inter Milan are four points back in third with a game in hand following their 1-0 triumph at fourth-placed Juventus, who are eight points off the pace with seven matches left. The draw was another disappointing result against one of the league's lesser lights, their displays against teams they should beat a consistent problem as the season inches towards its climax. Milan took 33 shots over the course of the match but only seven were on target in an imprecise performance in front of goal which could yet cost them a first league title since 2011. Elsewhere, Mikel Arteta apologized for Arsenal's "unacceptable" performance in a 3-0 defeat at Crystal Palace that dealt a significant blow to their bid to finish in the Premier League's top four. Arteta's side were destroyed by first half goals from Jean-Philippe Mateta and Jordan Ayew at Selhurst Park on Monday. Unable to muster a revival after the break, Arsenal's second defeat in their last three league games was sealed by Wilfried Zaha's late penalty. Arsenal had gone into the weekend in fourth place, but Tottenham's 5-1 win against Newcastle on Sunday piled pressure on the Gunners and their response could not have been any less convincing. The battle to qualify for next season's Champions League via a top four finish is heating up and Arsenal are in danger of wilting. They sit in fifth place, behind Tottenham on goal difference having played a game less than their north London rivals. West Ham and Manchester United, both three points behind Arsenal, will also fancy their chances after a result that blew the top four battle wide open. "We made it impossible for ourselves with the way we competed. You have to be physical and run and then you earn the right to play. We were really inconsistent on the ball and that is unacceptable," Arteta said. "We were poor, especially in the first half. I apologize to our supporters. We didn't have the presence or the composure to dominate the situation. That's what I'm most annoyed with."