Kylian Mbappe of Paris St Germain (PSG) played chief tormentor on a memorable night for the French forward as he scored two and set up the other goals as the runaway Ligue 1 leaders demolished visitors Lorient 5-1 on Sunday. In a game where Lionel Messi and Neymar, with a double, also scored, the French champions' attacking trio combined superbly at times to deliver a performance in sharp contrast with last month's embarrassing 3-0 defeat at Monaco. The result put PSG on 68 points from 30 games, 12 ahead of second-placed Olympique de Marseille, who earlier earned a 4-2 comeback win at relegation-threatened St Etienne. Lorient, who scored a second-half goal through Terem Moffi to make it 2-1, are 16th on 28 points. "We're happy to win, but we know this league is difficult to win, so we must continue to show we can get the title," said Neymar. "The Champions League exit (against Real Madrid) hurt us a lot because we wanted to go all the way. It was hard for the fans to take in, but it was even harder for us." However, Mbappe said he has still yet to make a decision on his future at PSG. "I haven't made my choice. I haven't taken my decision. I'm thinking it over; here are new elements, and there are loads of factors," Mbappe told Prime Video. "I don't want to be wrong," he added. "I know it's getting a bit late for people; we talk about it every day. If I'd taken my decision, I would say it. I don't have to explain myself to anyone; it's a personal choice. If I'd made my decision, I would come and announce it and stand by it." In La Liga, Barcelona's teenage sensation Pedro Lopez, known as Pedri, scored a magnificent goal in the second half to secure a 1-0 win over fading Sevilla on Sunday as they climbed above their opponents to second place after extending their winning streak to six games. The 19-year-old Spanish midfielder created and scored the winner in a similar style to the trademark goals Messi scored for Barcelona before leaving to join PSG last year. Barca are level on 57 points with Sevilla, who slipped to fourth, and third-placed Atletico Madrid but with a game in hand and having played 29 matches. Real Madrid are on top with 69 from 30. "Pedri is a superlative player," coach Xavi told reporters. "I always tell him to take his chances from outside the box. It's a player that I don't have a comparison for; he is unique with his talent both as a creator and as a finisher." Pedri praised his teammates and thanked the fans who ended the match chanting his name. "It's a crazy sensation listening to these fans. This stadium is amazing," Pedri told reporters. "Every time I saw a leg in front of me, I just jinked. When I made the last jink and shot, I knew I had it. I knew it was a goal." (With input from agencies)