Editor's note: William Jones is a former White House correspondent for Executive Intelligence Review and a non-resident Fellow of the Chongyang Institute for Financial Studies, Renmin University of China. The article reflects the author's opinions, and not necessarily those of CGTN. The response of the world to the Russian "special military operation" in Ukraine has been to increase the flow of military equipment to the Ukrainian forces, thereby assuring the continuation of hostilities, and to impose absolutely draconian sanctions on Russia. Sanctions have been the preferred mode of operation in this crisis by the U.S. and NATO, since they are not prepared to engage militarily for fear of pushing the conflict to the nuclear threshold. But sanctions have their own "deadly force" and their own "collateral damage." The immediate target of the sanctions in this case is the Russian people. By imposing increasing austerity on the Russian people, forces in the West think that they will became very angry and rebellious, forcing the Russian government to cease and desist in it military operations, or, in an extreme case, will force the angry masses to overthrow their own government. But the nature of these sanctions, which are being increased on an almost daily basis, will affect the entire world. Russia is a major supplier of oil and gas as well as a major supplier of grain. The sanctions will have a direct effect on curtailing production in both energy and in foodstuffs. Russia currently supplies roughly 60 percent of the imported grain going to Africa. Many African countries, which are already suffering production cuts from the economic effects of the COVID-19 crisis will see their food supplies dwindle even more. According to estimates, the restrictions on the export of grain from Russia as well as the loss of Ukrainian grain production will possibly triple or quadruple the number of people facing starvation in these countries over the next year. It is not simply the reduction in direct imports from Russia and Ukraine. The sanctions have also disabled the global supply chain. Even food supplies that are already in the works cannot be transported because Western nations will not allow Russian ships to land at their ports. And the entire chain of world production must be reconfigured in order adhere to the demands of the sanctions.  Even if this is a theoretical possibility, it could take years to accomplish and the cost in human life will be great. In effect, if one were to speak about genocide (and that word is being bandied about all over the place these days) it would be most fitting to apply it to the effects of the sanctions policy. The most fundamental right of every human being is the "right to life." Depriving a population of food and nourishment will kill them as assuredly as a bullet or a bomb. And just as a general, sitting in his bunker or his office, who sends his men out on a killing mission, is responsible for the resulting bloodshed, so is the bureaucrat or the government official, who takes the decision to impose deadly sanctions on a particular population group, whatever the intention. Unfortunately the world's sense of morality has not fully fathomed the nature of this problem, which is why those who make these kind of decisions are never arraigned before a court of justice. A corollary of the "right to life" must be the "right to development," as has been continually underlined by China in its debate on human rights. For the conditions of life, including food, housing and clothing, can only be secured in the long run through continued economic development. Sabotaging that development for geopolitical reasons, which will lead to the death of millions of people, must be considered a crime against humanity. While the attention of the general public is presently on the destruction in Ukraine, an even greater tragedy is looming, which also stems indirectly from this same crisis. The only rational solution is that there must be a ceasefire, upheld by both parties and the flow of weapons into Ukraine should thereby cease, in order to create the proper climate for negotiations. In addition, the "killer sanctions" imposed in lieu of war must also be lifted. With that, the world can breathe easier and that worldwide network of production on which all depend can continue its operation providing the needed sustenance to a suffering humanity. Yet given the insistence on the part of the United States to assert its sole right to "set the rules," it is more than likely that such a solution will take much longer than anyone might hope. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries on CGTN Opinion Section.)