Manchester City kept their cool under pressure on Saturday, cruising past Burnley 2-0 after Liverpool briefly replaced the long-time Premier League leaders at the top of the table. Jurgen Klopp's men, who trailed City by 14 points in January, took pole position as Diogo Jota's header and a late Fabinho penalty saw off lowly Watford 2-0 in the early kick-off. But Kevin De Bruyne eased any City nerves in the early minutes of their match against relegation-threatened Burnley and Ilkay Gundogan put them in cruise control. Manchester City's coach Pep Guardiola and Liverpool coach Klopp are locked in a thrilling shootout at the top of the English top-flight, with just eight matches remaining in the season. Elsewhere, Christian Eriksen scored as Brentford came from behind to beat third-placed Chelsea 4-1, their first victory against their London rivals since 1939. Manchester United dropped more valuable points as they drew 1-1 at home to Leicester on Saturday, slipping further off the pace in the battle to secure Champions League football for next season. The draw at Old Trafford leaves Ralf Rangnik's misfiring side three points behind the fourth-placed Gunners, who have two games in hand. United's top-scorer Cristiano Ronaldo was not included in the squad through illness. In Bundesliga, Leon Goretzka scored on his first appearance for four months as Bayern Munich romped to a 4-1 win at Freiburg in a match overshadowed by a substitute mix-up on Saturday. Four days before their Champions League quarterfinal first leg at Villarreal, Bayern put in a strong performance on the road. However, there could be consequences for Bayern, who briefly had 12 players on the pitch after a late double substitution. "We drew the referee's attention to the fact that Bayern had eleven outfield players on the pitch," Freiburg director Jochen Saier told Sky. "That was bizarre. I haven't seen that before." However, referee Christian Dingert noted the incident in his report. The official told Sky, "Now the DFB (German Football Association) must decide." Under league rules, such a breach of the substitutes' regulations could even lead to the result being reversed. When Niklas Suele and Marcel Sabitzer, who later scored, both came on in the 86th minute, only one player came off, leaving Bayern with 12 men on the pitch for 17 seconds. "There was the bizarre situation," said Bayern coach Julian Nagelsmann. "The fourth official showed the wrong number, and Kingsley Coman didn't know he had to go off. Nothing decisive happened (during that time)." There was also eight minutes of stoppage time after intense discussions between both benches and the referee. In La Liga, Karim Benzema and Joao Felix ensured Real Madrid and Atletico Madrid claimed morale-boosting victories on Saturday before facing the Premier League's heavyweights next week in the Champions League quarterfinals. Benzema missed one penalty but scored two as Real Madrid defeated Celta Vigo 2-1 to get back to winning ways ahead of their meeting with Chelsea on April 6. And Atletico Madrid sailed past Alaves 4-1 before their trip to Pep Guardiola's Manchester City on April 5, the in-form Felix scoring twice, with Luis Suarez adding a brace of his own after coming on as a substitute. Felix now has seven goals in his last eight games for Atletico, and the 22-year-old is likely to be key if Diego Simeone's men are to spring a surprise against City and reach the semifinals. "We go with confidence but with our feet on the ground as well because we know it will be very tough game," said Felix. (With input from agencies)