Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said China and Vietnam, as two close neighbors on the path of socialism, should give full play to the political advantages of the two parties and the two countries and carry forward the friendly tradition of "comrades and brothers," during phone talks with Vietnamese Foreign Minister Bui Thanh Son on Thursday. Noting that the two countries need to maintain the momentum of development and rejuvenation of each other, Wang said they need to strengthen strategic communication and make new contributions to regional peace and stability. Recalling that Chinese President Xi Jinping had announced that China will donate 150 million doses of COVID-19 vaccines to Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries before the end of 2022, Wang said China is willing to provide Vietnam with support to help fight against COVID-19, such as vaccines, anti-epidemic materials and special medicine, and will promote the implementation of Vietnam's people's livelihood assistance. It is necessary to strengthen joint prevention and control, jointly ensuring the safety of border crossing personnel and goods exported to China, Wang said. Regarding the situation in the South China Sea, Wang said this year marks the 20th anniversary of the signing of the Declaration on the Conduct of Parties in the South China Sea, and China is ready to take the anniversary as an opportunity to work with all parties on achieving peaceful and stable consensus and accelerate consultation on the Code of Conduct in the South China Sea to jointly make it a sea of peace and cooperation. In response, Bui Thanh Son said Vietnam is willing to work with China to implement the declaration, reach a substantive and effective Code of Conduct in the South China Sea as soon as possible, and maintain peace and stability in the South China Sea. Bui Thanh Son warmly congratulated China on the successful hosting of the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympic Games and wished the 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China a complete success. Describing its relations with China as the top priority of its foreign policy, he said Vietnam is willing to strengthen strategic communication with China, consolidate political mutual trust and push for continuous development of the comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership. The two sides also exchanged in-depth views on the Ukraine crisis. "We cannot allow the Cold War mentality to resurface in the region and let the Ukrainian tragedy repeat itself. As two socialist countries, China is willing to strengthen solidarity and cooperation with Vietnam to resist external risks, properly deal with the spillover impact of the Ukraine crisis on the region and play a positive role in maintaining regional peace and stability," Wang said. In response, Bui Thanh Son said he appreciated China's contributions in promoting peace talks, ending the conflict and preventing the humanitarian crisis. The UN Charter and international law should be abided by, and a long-term solution to the conflicts should be sought on the basis of respecting the legitimate rights and interests of all parties.