Favorites Barcelona were dumped out of the Europa League by Eintracht Frankfurt in the quarterfinals on Thursday, while West Ham United and Rangers joined RB Leipzig in qualifying for the last four. Serbian international Filip Kostic scored twice either side of a Rafael Santos Borre strike at the Camp Nou for Frankfurt, who survived a late fightback to win 3-2 on the night and 4-3 on aggregate. Sergio Busquets scored a late consolation before Memphis Depay's even later penalty for Barcelona but Eintracht held on, to the delight of their estimated 30,000 supporters who traveled for the game. The Germans go through to their second Europa League semifinal in four seasons, having lost on penalties to Chelsea at the same stage in 2019. "I am speechless. Nobody expected this, if you are honest. Everyone expected us to suffer," said Frankfurt goalkeeper Kevin Trapp. Barcelona's recent revival under Xavi Hernandez has been remarkable but this defeat means they have won just once at home all season in Europe, and their campaign is now set to end without silverware. "It's a hammer blow for us. They deserved to go through," admitted Xavi. Eintracht maintained their record of not having lost to Spanish opposition since the 1960 European Cup final against Real Madrid, and they will face West Ham in the semifinals. The English side are through to their first European semifinal since losing the 1976 Cup Winners' Cup final to Anderlecht after they outclassed Lyon in France, winning 3-0 on the night and 4-1 on aggregate. The Hammers took the lead in the 38th minute of the return leg when Craig Dawson headed in a Pablo Fornals corner. Captain Declan Rice slotted in their second just before the break, his sidefooted effort from the edge of the area beating Lyon goalkeeper Julian Pollersbeck with the aid of a deflection. The outcome was put beyond doubt when West Ham scored again three minutes after the restart as Fornals sent Jarrod Bowen away to make it 3-0. There was drama in Glasgow as Rangers were taken to extra time by Braga before winning 3-1 on the night and 3-2 on aggregate as the Portuguese side finished the game with nine men. Rangers will now face Leipzig in their first European semifinal since reaching the 2008 UEFA Cup final. French international Christopher Nkunku scored both goals as Leipzig beat Atalanta 2-0 in Italy to win their last-eight tie 3-1 on aggregate. In the Europa Conference League, Leicester battled back to beat PSV Eindhoven 2-1 to reach a European semifinal for the first time in their history, where they will face Jose Mourinho's Roma. After a goalless draw in the first leg in England last week, PSV took the lead in the quarterfinal tie through Eran Zahavi. But late goals from James Maddison and Ricardo Pereira sent Brendan Rodgers' Premier League side through and stunned the Philips Stadion crowd. Leicester will play Roma for a place in the final in Tirana on May 25, after the Serie A side overturned a 2-1 first-leg deficit against Norwegians Bodo/Glimt with a 4-0 thrashing. Marseille also booked their place in the last four as Dimitri Payet scored for the second time in the tie – a 1-0 victory over PAOK in Greece sealing a 3-1 aggregate success. The Ligue 1 club will take on Feyenoord in the semis, after the Dutch outfit won 3-1 against Slavia Prague in the Czech capital after a 3-3 first-leg draw, with Cyriel Dessers netting twice.