Israeli Prime Minister Naftali Bennett on Saturday told United Nations (UN) Secretary-General Antonio Guterres that Israel has been "the stabilizing force" in recent conflicts with Palestine, according to the prime minister's office. Bennett's remarks came after weeks of tension in Jerusalem, where Palestinians and Israeli police clashed at the holy site of the Al-Aqsa Mosque, leaving over 160 Palestinians injured. During a phone conversation with Guterres, Bennett said: "If we did not uphold order, tens of thousands of Muslims would not be able to pray," the prime minister office said in a statement quoting him. He expressed his disappointment "at the absence of condemnation by the UN for the firing of rockets at Israel," the statement said. Following the clashes on Friday, Guterres said in a message released by his spokesperson that "provocations" on the Holy Esplanade must stop immediately, to prevent further escalation. Guterres reiterated his commitment to support Palestinians and Israelis in resolving the conflict, on the basis of United Nations resolutions, international law, and bilateral agreements. Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas has accused Israeli police forces of acting "brutally towards the safe worshipers, in flagrant violation of international law and the legal and historical status of the status quo in the holy city," the official Palestinian news agency WAFA reported. On Friday, a Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson said China will continue to play a constructive role in implementing the two-state solution and realizing the peaceful coexistence of Palestine and Israel. Several rockets were fired into Israel from Gaza in the past week after months of quiet. In response, Israel announced the temporary closure of the sole pedestrian crossing from Gaza to Israel, which thousands of Gazans use on a daily basis. Last year, clashes at Al-Aqsa Mosque led to 11 days of violence between Israel and the Hamas-controlled Gaza Strip. Read more: Jerusalem violence puts strain on Israel's coalition government (With input from Xinhua)