Pakistan will go to the polls to elect a new government within three months after Prime Minister Imran Khan foiled an attempt to boot him from office Sunday by getting the president to dissolve the national assembly. On a day of high drama, the assembly deputy speaker refused to accept a motion of no confidence in the government, as Khan appeared on TV to say there had been "foreign interference" in Pakistan's democratic institutions. "I have sent advice to the president to dissolve the assemblies. We will go to the public and hold elections, and let the nation decide," he said. The presidency – a largely ceremonial office – approved the proposal hours later. "The president of Pakistan, Dr. Arif Alvi, has approved the advice of the prime minister," a statement from his office said, meaning fresh elections must be held within 90 days. Earlier in the day, Qasim Khan Suri, deputy speaker of the National Assembly, or the lower house of the parliament, rejected the no-confidence motion, saying that foreign involvement has been found in opposition filing the motion, a move which is against the Constitution of Pakistan. The opposition said they would petition the courts with a slew of briefs, also arguing the constitution had been violated. The Supreme Court is aware of Sunday's political developments, the chief justice's office said. The chief justice "has taken notice of current situation. Further details will be shared soon," a statement from his office said. Khan has accused the opposition of conspiring with "foreign powers" to remove him because he won't take the West's side on global issues. Earlier this week he accused the United States of meddling in Pakistan's affairs. Local media had reported that Khan had received a briefing letter from Islamabad's ambassador to Washington recording a senior U.S. official saying they felt relations would be better if Khan left office. In Washington last week, State Department spokesman Ned Price told reporters there was "no truth" to the allegations. Read more: Pakistan PM Khan suggests he might not accept vote to oust him U.S. making false denials after attempting to topple Pakistani government: Pakistani official (With input from Xinhua, AFP) (Cover: A man watches news channels broadcast a live address to the nation by Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan, Islamabad, Pakistan, March 31, 2022. /CFP)