The relationship between China and Russia, which is based on non-alliance, non-confrontation and non-targeting of any third party, is "mature, resilient and stable" and boasts strong endogenous power and independent value, China's top legislator Li Zhanshu said on Friday. Li, chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC), made the remarks when meeting with Russian Federation Council Speaker Valentina Matviyenko via video link. Li said China and Russia always firmly support each other in safeguarding sovereignty, security and development interests, always promote all-round mutually beneficial cooperation, and always play a leading role in the improvement of the global governance system. He hailed continuous efforts made by the two sides to consolidate and develop the China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination for a new era. Chinese and Russian legislative organs should prioritize efforts in implementing consensus reached by the two heads of state and the Treaty of Good-Neighborliness and Friendly Cooperation between the two countries, he said.  The two sides should enhance coordination in multilateral affairs and jointly maintain an international system with the United Nations (UN) at its core, an international order based on international law and the basic norms governing international relations based on the UN Charter, he said. Matviyenko congratulated China on the success of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and Paralympics. The Russian Federation Council, the upper house of Russia's parliament, stands ready to deepen cooperation with the NPC and contribute to practical cooperation between the two countries in various fields, she said. Li received the Order of Friendship awarded by Russia after the talks. The order is awarded to Russian and foreign citizens for special accomplishments in strengthening of peace, friendship, cooperation and mutual understanding between peoples, and for fruitful work on rapprochement and mutual enrichment of cultures of nations and ethnicities, according to TASS News Agency.