Manchester City produced a disciplined performance to secure a fractious 0-0 draw at Atletico Madrid on Wednesday and reach the UEFA Champions League semifinals 1-0 on aggregate. Tensions boiled over in the closing stages and Atletico defender Felipe was sent off after receiving a second yellow card before the teams played out 12 minutes of added time. Scuffles broke out among the players following Felipe's dismissal for kicking out at Phil Foden and continued after the final whistle as the teams went down the tunnel, with the police having to intervene to restore calm. The English champions were comfortable in the first half, Ilkay Gundogan struck the post with their best chance after a flowing move down the right, but they did not manage another attempt on goal the rest of the game. The Spanish champions enjoyed more possession after the interval and threatened to score the goal that would have taken the game into extra time but were unable to break down the City defense despite creating several good chances. Meanwhile, Liverpool booked a Champions League semifinal showdown against Villarreal as the quadruple chasers survived a late collapse in a 3-3 draw against Benfica. With a 3-1 lead from the first leg in Lisbon, Liverpool manager Klopp made seven changes to the team which drew with Manchester City at the weekend, but his squad showed their improved strength in depth with Luis Diaz and Kostas Tsimikas particularly impressing. They were on cruise control for long spells in the second leg at Anfield, but had to hold their nerve before advancing 6-4 on aggregate after an uncharacteristic meltdown in the closing stages. Brazilian Firmino scored twice after the break. He made it 2-1 in the 55th minute after Benfica keeper Odysseas Vlachodimos spilled the ball out, his defenders could not clear their lines and Diogo Jota's slightly mis-hit cross was turned in by the Brazilian at the back post. Firmino's second goal came when Tsimikas floated a free kick over the Benfica defense for the striker to beat Vlachodimos with a side-footed volley. City will now face Real Madrid, with Liverpool up against Villarreal in the other semi to complete an all Spanish-English lineup in the last four. The Reds look to reach their 10th Champions League final and claim a seventh title in the competition. Despite Villarreal's impressive wins over Bayern Munich and Juventus in the last two rounds, Liverpool will be firm favorites to make a third final in the last five seasons. (With input from agencies)