The Golden State Warriors defeated the Utah Jazz 111-107 at Chase Center in San Francisco on Saturday, ending their four-game losing streak. The Warriors beat a deficit that was as big as 21 points to pocket this home win after Klay Thompson, Jordan Poole and Andrew Wiggins combined 17 triples and 83 points. Poole shot 3 -for- 5 from downtown in the second quarter. Thompson drained six 3-pointers in the second half to lead the Warrior to rally from the desperate situation. This valuable victory also enabled the Warriors to lock a playoff spot. "I know I can flip a switch just like that. I knew this year would have its ups and downs, and I just told myself yesterday that it's one game and I will move on. I told Kenny Atkinson that I felt like I was going to have a big night tonight, and it came to fruition. I'm happy it did." Thompson said after shooting 14 -for- 28 in field goals (FGs) and 8 -for- 17 in 3-pointers to score court-high 36 points. "We've seen it a million times: If Klay just sees the ball go through the hoop a couple of times, he can make the bad ones too," Warriors head coach Steve Kerr said. " I didn't think this was a dramatic improvement in terms of shot selection, but I think the fact that that midrange shot was there ... that allowed him to get into a rhythm and then he started making the impossible ones." The Warriors are third in the Western Conference after Saturday's win, one game above the fourth Dallas Mavericks and three games over the fifth Jazz with a tiebreaker. It was the fourth time for the Jazz to waste a 20+points lead this season. Their lead came from remarkable touch at the 3-point line, but that touch could be easily gone when over half of the team's FG attempts were from downtown. When the Jazz found their most powerful offensive weapon malfunction, they seemed to have forgotten other advantages they have over the Warriors. For example, Rudy Gobert got a double-double of 14 points and 20 rebounds for the Jazz on Saturday night, but he only took nine FG attempts. It's true that the French giant lacks reliable isolation ability, but he is a finisher with a season average FG rate of 71.2 percent, not to mention that the Warriors had no one to match his 2.16-meter height. However, the Jazz just couldn't feed him the ball enough. Moreover, Gobert had five offensive rebounds and five second-chance points in Saturday's game. If the Jazz had shot fewer 3-pointers that often led to long rebounds, Gobert's existence in the paint could mean more offensive rebounds and, thus, more second-chance attacks, instead of one-off deals behind the arc. Durant's career-high 55 points couldn't save Nets The Atlanta Hawks beat the Brooklyn Nets 122-115 at State Farm Arena in Atlanta on Saturday, securing the fifth straight win. The Hawks are now 41-37, eighth in the East, two games behind the seventh Cleveland Cavaliers and one game above the following Charlotte Hornets and Nets. Trae Young had a double-double of 36 points and 10 assists for the Hawks at home on Saturday night. Though he was shooting as awful as 7 -for-19 in FGs in the first three quarters, Young stood out to carry the team in the last quarter with 11 points, all in the last two minutes. "We're playing some good basketball right now," Young said. It's the 19th time for him to get at least 30 points and 10 assists in one game this season, more than twice of Luka Doncic who did it nine times. The Hawks' bench squad also made incredible contribution to the victory by outscoring their Nets counterparts 46-12. Danilo Gallinari led the reserves in scoring with 15 points. "Coach gave the glass of wine to the 'Bench Mob'," he said. Saturday night could have belonged to Kevin Durant who shot 19 -for- 28 in FGs to score new career-high 55 points. It's his third 50+points game this season, the most in NBA history at the age of 33 years or older. Durant also set a new career record of making the most 3-pointers in one game after shooting 8 -for- 10 on Saturday night. However, none of the above could lead to a win for the Nets, which was understandable because Durant's teammates missed 48 of their 71 attempts from the floor. It took Kyrie Irving 32 shots, four more than Durant, to get 31 points. Patty Mills and Cam Thomas combined 1 -for- 14 to score only five points. "I'm not worried about that," Durant said after the game. "I'm just mad at the loss." In fact, how the Nets lost in the past two games should concern him and the team. The Bucks stopped at nothing trying to trap Durant and they won. The Hawks let Durant display every drop of his isolation power and they won as well. The two fundamental ways to limit a super star, cutting his connections with teammates and forcing him to work alone, or containing him at all cost and forcing his teammates to make a difference, both worked on Durant and the Nets. A multi-game series aside, it won't be too hard to copy the Bucks' or the Hawks' work in a win-or-go-home play-in tournament game. Other games on Saturday (away teams come first): Charlotte Hornets 114-144 Philadelphia 76ers Cleveland Cavaliers 119-101 New York Knicks Miami Heat 127-109 Chicago Bulls