Editor's note: Thomas W. Pauken II is the author of "US vs China: From Trade War to Reciprocal Deal", a consultant on Asia-Pacific affairs and a geopolitical commentator. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily those of CGTN. In the aftermath of Russian President Vladimir Putin's decision on February 24 to launch "special military operations" in Ukraine, the country has been ravaged, especially in the eastern and southern coastal regions. By April 21, over 5 million Ukrainians had become refugees outside their homeland and over 7 million displaced internally, according to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. Though Ukrainian cities, towns and villages, especially in the eastern and southern coastal regions, have experienced devastation and people across the globe wish to support Ukraine's rebuilding, nonetheless, the time is not right since Kyiv and Moscow have not reached a peace agreement yet. Additionally, there's no guarantee that Ukraine will not cede more territory to Russia. Should the Russian troops seize more Ukrainian land, Ukraine would have to confront the new reality when negotiating peace talks. The result could be a Ukraine smaller in territorial size. While Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy remains optimistic that the nation can continue fighting and push Russian troops out, the Russians too feel confident that they will prevail. Ukraine at World Bank & IMF spring meetings Meanwhile, at the annual spring meetings of the World Bank Group and IMF in Washington, D.C., the Russia-Ukraine conflict is a major topic for discussion. The organizers invited high-level Ukraine officials to participate in their round-table discussions and meetings on the sidelines. President Zelenskyy was asked to deliver a video speech for the World Bank and he made a formal request for monetary aid of $7 billion per month to make up the losses incurred by the war. But this is not the time to rebuild Ukraine. To engage in such measures could lead to false hopes and wasted energy and funds if the troops keep marching. The IMF and World Bank should wait and see how to approach. The idea of delivering funds for reconstruction should be cast aside for the moment. The rebuilding of Ukraine will succeed only when peace is at hand. However, Western governments, NGOs, the United Nations, World Bank and IMF can still offer humanitarian aid to Kyiv to ensure basic amenities like access to clean drinking water, food and shelter. But starting the rebuilding stage in Ukraine without a peace agreement is not productive. When it comes to a crisis, whether a natural or human-made disaster, the first step in the recovery process is to deliver humanitarian aid. Once things are stable, people can begin to move on with their lives by rebuilding. Yet in the Ukraine, Russia's special military operations remain ongoing and as such the crisis has not come to a formal end. Many Ukrainians are farmers or connected to the agricultural industry, so they understand the phrase "don't put the horse before the cart". This means don't rush into an activity until the right conditions are in play to deliver positive results from the project. The rebuilding of Ukraine is a step-by-step process that will only succeed when peace ensues. In the eyes of the West, Zelenskyy appears as a heroic figure, some have called him the Ukrainian Churchill. He has delivered amazing speeches on video and united Ukrainians to fight back. His actions deserve praise, but it's time for him and his government to think more realistically. A prolonged conflict will inevitably result in more casualties on both sides, along with more property damage. In the worst-case scenario for Kyiv, they could lose parts of their country. The IMF and World Bank are doing no favors by starting discussions on rebuilding Ukraine when there is no peace. To support peace requires patience. Plus, we have to take other concerns into consideration. The Western media often portrays the Ukrainian army as scoring major victories against Russia. But is this the truth or fake news? And if false, how will Zelenskyy explain later on that Ukraine has lost? Ukraine's rebuilding can succeed only after Russia departs, not before. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries on CGTN Opinion section.)