Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Friday that China and Caribbean countries are eyeing a deepening of their comprehensive cooperative partnership. Wang made the remarks when co-chairing a foreign ministers' meeting with the Caribbean countries that China has diplomatic relations with. Dominican Prime Minister Roosevelt Skerrit was the other chair. This year marks the 50th anniversary since China and Caribbean countries established diplomatic relations. Over the past half century, cooperation between China and Caribbean countries has yielded fruitful results, which sets an example of countries developing ties based on mutual respect, equality, and common development, Wang pointed out, speaking highly of mutual political trust, COVID-19 assistance, people-to-people exchanges and the close coordination between the two sides. To push the ties a step further, the Chinese diplomat urged the two sides to jointly promote peaceful development, including an increase in "firmly upholding the authority and status" of the United Nations and practice true multilateralism. Wang also called on the international community to pay attention to the special situation of developing countries and build consensus, mobilize resources, take actions, and form synergies to accelerate the implementation of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. He also suggested deepening cooperation in areas including top-level official exchanges, while advancing ties in areas like trade, infrastructure construction, education, culture, and tourism. When speaking of climate change, Wang said China "fully understands and supports" the legitimate and reasonable concerns of small island states, and is willing to jointly promote the establishment of a fair, reasonable, cooperative and win-win global climate governance system. Officials of the Caribbean countries at the meeting said they are thankful for the long-term assistance China offers to their countries, specifically the "grand support" in facing natural disasters and in the time of COVID-19. China is a reliable and important development partner of Caribbean countries, they said, adding that they support China in safeguarding its sovereignty and territorial integrity. They also said they support and will actively participate in the joint construction of the Belt and Road Initiative with high quality. The Caribbean state officials added that they would strengthen cooperation with China and jointly address global challenges including climate change. (Cover: Officials of China and the Caribbean countries that China has diplomatic relations with attend a meeting together via the internet, April 29, 2022. /Chinese Foreign Ministry)