More than 100 countries have expressed support for the Global Development Initiative (GDI) proposed by Chinese President Xi Jinping, and over 50 countries have joined the Group of Friends of the GDI launched by China at the platform of the United Nations, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Monday. Wang made the remarks during a meeting with Siddharth Chatterjee, UN development system resident coordinator in China. The UN is the leading platform for international development and cooperation, Wang said. He added that China attaches great importance to its cooperation with the UN development system and stands ready to work with the UN to promote global development. To address various challenges cropping up because of the COVID-19 pandemic, particularly related to developing countries' expectations for accelerating post-pandemic recovery, Xi proposed the GDI to call for greater international awareness of development issues, stronger international cooperation on development, and intensified efforts to implement the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, Wang said. He described the GDI as another "global public product" advocated by Xi following the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI). Significant progress has been made through international cooperation under the BRI, making important contributions to boosting global connectivity, he said. China has also accumulated rich experience in fields such as poverty reduction, the development of human resources, the protection of the rights and interests of women and children, health, and green and open development, he added, noting that these areas are key aspects of the 2030 Agenda. China is willing to conduct cooperation with UN member states and the UN development system and share its experience with countries around the world, he said. Chatterjee hailed the significance of the GDI for realizing the goals of the 2030 Agenda. He said the UN development system would like to enhance communication and coordination with China in promoting the GDI and conducting practical cooperation globally. (Cover: File photo of Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi. /Xinhua)