The Ministry of National Defense spokesperson Tan Kefei on Thursday accused the U.S. and Japan of fabricating the so-called "China space threat" and called for joint opposition to the U.S. maritime bullying. China committed to the peaceful use of outer space China is committed to the peaceful use of outer space, actively advocates the prevention of weaponization and arms race in outer space, and promotes international cooperation in outer space, the spokesperson said that when commenting on some reports related to the so-called “space threat of China" in a press conference. The U.S. and Japan, ignoring the facts, have fabricated and hyped up such excuses for their own army expansion and predominance in the space, he said. In recent years, the United States has continued to promote the process of space militarization with a Cold War mentality, openly defining space as a "combat domain," establishing a Space Command, establishing a space force, and vigorously developing and deploying directed energy and "anti-satellite communication systems" and other offensive space weapons, frequent military exercises such as "Schriever", "Global Sentinel" and "Space Flag" are held, Tan said. The United States, as the country with the largest number of satellites, has launched all kinds of satellites, including military reconnaissance satellites, and heavily involved in commercial space investment, purchasing billions of dollars of commercial satellite services for military use. At the same time, the U.S. has disavowed the draft treaty on the "the Prevention of the Placement of Weapons in Outer Space, the Threat or Use of Force against Outer Space Objects" which was proposed by China and Russia, and "Group of Governmental Experts on further effective measures for the prevention of an arms race in outer space" by UN, leading to a standstill of international efforts on outer space, he said, adding that Japan is also speeding up its military construction in space and setting up a "space combat force." These moves have raised the risk of weaponization and arms race in outer space and negatively affected global strategic stability, he added. To promote the international cooperation, China has signed cooperation agreements with a number of international space agencies and organizations, which has been highly recognized by the United Nations Office for Outer Space Affairs, Tan said. Calls for joint opposition to U.S. maritime bullying Navigation is not bullying and freedom is not willful, he said. Everything should be based on international law and basic international relations norms, with the sovereignty and security of coastal states as the boundary. He made the remarks in response to a question regarding the U.S. Annual Freedom of Navigation Report for Fiscal Year 2021, which said that the U.S has challenged 37 "excessive maritime claims" from 26 countries and regions, of which China was the most involved, with five cases involving mainland China and one involving the Taiwan region. Noting that the U.S. should deeply reflect on how many collisions and casualties have been caused by their stubbornness and self-righteousness, Tan said that the U.S. is yet to accede to the UN Convention on the Law of the Sea (UNCLOS), and has been challenging the international order and continuously threatening maritime navigation safety and exacerbating regional tensions by brutal "law enforcements." We urge the U.S. to play its due role as a responsible major country, stop so-called "freedom of navigation operations," stop issuing such irresponsible reports, earnestly respect other countries' sovereignty, security and maritime rights and interests, and do more to contribute to regional peace and stability, Tan reiterated. (With input from agencies) (Cover photo: Tan Kefei, the spokesperson of the Ministry of National Defense, held a regular press conference on Thursday in Beijing.)