Ralf Rangnick's interim stint at Old Trafford won't be remembered fondly in terms of results. Manchester United have taken just five points from 18 on offer since the start of the month and lost three of their last five. They are languishing in sixth in the league table, five points behind Arsenal in fourth spot but having played two games more. It is increasingly likely that the English giants will miss out on Champions League qualification. The rare positive, though, has been Cristiano Ronaldo. The 37-year-old, who notched a hat trick against Norwich and netted his 100th Premier League goal at Arsenal in his previous two outings, again single-handedly snatched a draw from the jaws of defeat. He scored his 17th goal of the season to earn United a point against a wasteful Chelsea, who had controlled most of the game but failed to make their dominance count. According to stats provider Squawka, the Blues were one of the few opponents Ronaldo had not managed to score against in the English topflight. But Thursday night's breakthrough means that the Portuguese superstar has now scored against every Premier League team he's faced in four or more games. In keeping with the United's horrendous season only Ronaldo emerged with any credit. He has now netted 23 goals in all competitions this season and moved joint-second on the domestic league top scorers list with 17 goals only behind Liverpool talisman Mohamed Salah. "Not only the goal Cristiano scored but his whole performance, his attitude at age of 37, this is not normal to do that," observed Rangnick during the post-game press conference. "If he plays like he did today he can still be a big help to this team." When asked whether his team are too reliant on Ronaldo for goals, Rangnick said, "We have to still be fair with the players. We had quite a few other players scoring goals, I remember, in my first 10 games, we had 10 different goalscorers. It is how many opportunities can we create and how many goalscorers." "Right now, we very much rely on Cristiano, he also showed a good performance when Chelsea were in possession. But there has to be a focus on bringing in a couple of new strikers for sure," he added. It remains unclear if Ronaldo will stay at United next season when Erik ten Hag takes charge of the Reds. "This is something that we should speak about between Erik and the board and myself," said Rangnick in reference to Ronaldo's future. "Cristiano has another year of contract." "It is also important to find out what he wants, if he wants to stay... In the end, it's both Erik's and also Cristinao's decision what they want to do. It is not for me to speak about that but, today, the performance of Cris was really great." Earlier in the day, multiple media outlets revealed that Austria is set to appoint Rangnick as their national team head coach. When asked about the rumor, Rangnick, whose initial deal included a two-year consultancy position, insisted his focus is only on United for the remainder of the season. "I want to speak tonight about Manchester United and our game," he stated. "I can confirm I will definitely continue in my consultancy role. We have definitely agreed now on the content and time of my consultancy role."