Tottenham thumped Aston Villa 4-0 on Saturday to tighten their grip on fourth spot in the Premier League after Manchester United and Arsenal both slipped up. Third-placed Chelsea ended a tough week by hammering Southampton 6-0 while Leeds climbed nine points above the relegation zone with a comfortable 3-0 win at Watford. Six wins in seven league games for free-scoring Spurs have made them firm favorites to qualify for next season's Champions League along with Manchester City, Liverpool and Chelsea. Son Heung-min scored a hat-trick for Antonio Conte's men at Villa Park, with Dejan Kulusevski also chipping in as Spurs put their opponents to the sword. The impressive Harry Kane provided two assists while Tottenham goalkeeper Hugo Lloris made seven saves in the opening 45 minutes to keep Villa at bay. The win takes Spurs to 57 points – three clear of fifth-placed Arsenal and six ahead of West Ham and Manchester United. In the early kick-off, Frank Lampard's Everton beat misfiring United 1-0 to climb four points above the relegation zone while Arsenal slumped to a 2-1 defeat against Brighton – their third loss in four games. The decisive moment at Goodison Park came midway through the first half when Anthony Gordon hit a shot that took a huge deflection off England defender Harry Maguire and wrong-footed David de Gea in the United goal. Lampard said he was proud of his battling side, who are trying to maintain Everton's record of being ever-present in the English top flight since 1954. "Beautiful football can come later on," he told BT Sport. "I have ambitions for this club to stay up, play well, but in the position we are in, fighting comes first and foremost." Chelsea also restored confidence on Saturday, racing into a 6-0 lead in the 54th minute, with two goals apiece for Mason Mount and Timo Werner. Manchester City and Liverpool go head to head at the Etihad on Sunday in a top-of-the-table clash. In France, Kylian Mbappe and Neymar both scored hat-tricks and Lionel Messi pitched in with a trio of assists as Paris Saint-Germain romped to a 6-1 thrashing of struggling Clermont to move closer to winning Ligue 1. Mbappe, who has still not decided whether he will stay at PSG beyond this season, scored twice and had three assists in last weekend's 5-1 rout of Lorient. He added another assist and won a penalty in this game as he moved to the top of the Ligue 1 goalscoring charts with 20 goals this season. Mauricio Pochettino's men are now 15 points clear of second-placed Rennes and appear certain to regain the title with only seven games remaining. Clermont remain in 17th spot, just one point ahead of Saint-Etienne who occupy the relegation play-off place. In Spain, Real Madrid kept Chelsea in mind by resting Luka Modric and Toni Kroos but eased past Getafe 2-0 to restore their advantage to 12 points at the top of La Liga. Casemiro's header and a smart finish by Lucas Vazquez sealed a comfortable victory for Madrid, who can turn their attention back to finishing the job against Chelsea and reaching the Champions League semi-finals. "This kind of game can be a trap because after the Champions League, you always lack something physically and mentally, but the team has responded well," said coach Carlo Ancelotti. Atletico Madrid will face Manchester City at the Wanda Metropolitano on Wednesday on the back of a limp defeat after they were beaten 1-0 at Mallorca. Atletico also lost 1-0 to City in the first leg in Manchester last week. In Italy, Inter Milan confirmed that their Serie A title defence was alive and well with Saturday's straight-forward 2-0 win over Verona which took them to within a point of leaders AC Milan. First-half goals from Nicolo Barella and Edin Dzeko in front of around 60,000 fans at a sun-dappled San Siro made sure that the champions built on their morale-boosting win at Juventus last weekend by moving into second place. Inter are level on 66 points with Napoli, who host Fiorentina on Sunday, but ahead of Luciano Spalletti's side in the table thanks to their superior head-to-head record. Milan meanwhile are at Torino in Sunday's late match with their two main title rivals breathing down their necks and seven rounds of fixtures to be completed in an enthralling race for the Scudetto. Four points behind Inter in fourth are Juve who came back from a goal down to win 2-1 at relegation-threatened Cagliari thanks to Matthijs de Ligt and Dusan Vlahovic.