Royal Never Give Up (RNG) won the 2022 League of Legends Pro League (LPL) Spring Championship after defeating Top Esports (TES) 3-2 in the finals on Saturday night. RNG won the first two games but lost the following two sets. Both them and TES beat 2-0 deficit in the semifinals. Therefore, everyone was under a lot of pressure in the last game. "I could feel the pressure in the last game," bot laner Chen "GALA" Wei of RNG said. "I was a little anxious and then got ganked (being attacked by the opponents who don't belong to his lane). If we really wasted a 2-0 lead and lost, I would definitely have nightmare that night." Before the lost third and fourth sets, RNG kept making mistakes in the draft pick section, which partly cost their 2-0 lead. However, the team surprised TES in this section before Game 5, gaining the initiative from the start. "We have played against TES before and thus know they prefer squads which can be aggressive early in the game," coach Zhu "KenZhu" Kai said. "That's why we needed to contain them "from the early stage in today's games. We tried to have a lineup that can stay close with TES in farming at the early stage and then punch harder late in the game. That's out major strategy today." As the LPL Spring champions, RNG will participate in the Mid-Season Invitational (MSI) on behalf of the Chinese league. Their major rivals will be T1 from League of Legends Champions Korea (LCK). Led by League of Legends (LoL) greatest player of all time, mid laner Lee "Faker" Sang-hyeok, T1 won the LCK Spring title with dominant 20 straight wins. Both T1 and RNG have won two MSI titles in history, but Faker has lost to Chinese teams only once, both in the history of MSI and World Championship. RNG's mid laner Li "Xiaohu" Yuanhao has lost twice to Faker before. He will meet this formidable opponent again at MSI in May. "I was playing the top lane last year," Xiaohu said. "It will be the first international major tournament I participate in since changing back to the md lane. I will meet some old rivals and I'm looking forward to competing with them again." RNG will attend this year's MSI online because of COVID-19, just like the way they played in the LPL Spring finals. Top laner Chen "Bin" Zebin said it feels different to compete online. "I want to play against T1 and G2 (Esports) at MSI," Bin said. "We will study those two teams as part of our preparations." MSI 2022 will take place between May 10 and 29.