Ben Simmons of the Brooklyn Nets will not play in Game 4 of the NBA Eastern Conference first-round playoffs against the Boston Celtics at the Barclays Center in New York City on Monday, according to ESPN. Back soreness, a problem Simmons has dealt with throughout the season, is reportedly the reason. He hasn't played a game this season for either the Philadelphia 76ers or the Nets. The Nets are currently trailing the Celtics 3-0 in the series. Underperformance of Kevin Durant and Kyrie Irving aside, the Nets' size disadvantage has placed them in a very unfavorable situation, especially on the defensive front. The team is without a qualified orchestrator who is able to pass the ball to Durant when he moves to his sweet spot. Simmons, as a 2.11-meter-tall, 108-kilogram point guard who has been named the All-Defensive First Team twice and averaged 7.7 assists in his career, should be able to provide what the Nets need in his healthy form. Of course, it's tricky to judge what form Simmons is in at the moment after missing formal competitions and practice for such a long time. Even if he appears in Game 4, he is likely to play under a time limit. Thus, there's a big question mark how much help he can offer to the Nets. Theoretically, not playing is a safe decision for him. However, the rage over this decision is also reasonable because Simmons has been continuously causing drama since the ugly elimination of the 76ers from the playoffs last season. Reports of his return in Game 4 followed by cancellation triggered the criticism. "Cmon MAN!!! Out for Game 4 when it was rumored you were going to make your debut. This dude has ZERO competitive [fire]?.. As small a chance as the Nets have to come back in this series, you still have KD and Kyrie, all you need is to win ONE game and take it from there.. #ManUp," Naismith Basketball Hall of Famer Reggie Miller posted on Twitter. "I feel bad for anybody who was his teammate," ESPN reporter Stephen A. Smith said. "He quit on LSU. He quit on the Philadelphia 76ers. And now, he ain't showing up for the Brooklyn Nets. We can point to all the excuses, all the rationale behind it that we want to. I do recall, despite him not playing, he still filed a grievance to collect $20 million that he has not earned." "This is one of the most pathetic situations I've ever seen in my life. He ain't going to war. He ain't going into the octagon. He's not going into the boxing ring. It's pulling teeth to get this man to play basketball. It's pathetic. It's sad. And at the end of the day, when the NBA gets in the collective bargaining table, and they go after the players in terms of a pay for play stipulation in the collective bargaining agreement, it's going to be called the Ben Simmons Rule," Smith added during his 46 seconds of firing at Simmons. "Ben Simmons has officially completed the biggest heist in NBA history. He really sat out an entire season! Carry on…" ESPN analyst, former NBA champion center Kendrick Perkins tweeted. Ben Anderson of KSLsports posted a photo of a woman breaking into Game 4 between the Minnesota Timberwolves and Memphis Grizzlies and then being tackled by security on April 23 accompanied with the following words: "Spent more time on an NBA floor than Ben Simmons this season."