Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan said on Friday he accepted a verdict from the country's Supreme Court that ruled parliament had been illegally dissolved and that a no-confidence vote on his government must go ahead. Following the top court's ruling, Pakistan's parliament will convene on Saturday to vote on removing Khan as prime minister. One day ahead of the vote, Khan said in an address to the nation that he was disappointed but ultimately accepted the court decision. He also said he would not recognize any opposition government that replaced him, suggesting the move to oust him was part of a foreign conspiracy and calling for peaceful protests on Sunday. Read more: Pakistani PM Khan faces boot after court orders parliament restoration Pakistani PM protests to U.S. embassy over alleged interference How have events unfolded? An alliance of opposition parties in Pakistan on March 28 presented a no-confidence motion against Khan. It seemed that Khan had survived the crisis after the deputy speaker of parliament, a member of Khan's party, blocked the motion on April 3, saying it was part of a foreign conspiracy and so unconstitutional. Khan's government then dissolved parliament and called a snap election. However, opposition members launched an appeal with the Supreme Court to decide on the legality of the blocked vote. On Thursday, the Supreme Court ruled that the no-confidence vote should go ahead. A session of the lower house of parliament has been called for 10:30 a.m. (0530 GMT) on Saturday, the speaker's office said in an order paper. The vote is the fourth point on the agenda. 'Foreign conspiracy' Khan has accused the United States of interference in the country's affairs and called for a probe by Pakistan's top court. In a nationally televised address last week, the 69-year-old said a Western country had been unhappy about his recent visit to Moscow. He reportedly mentioned the United States before correcting it to "a foreign country." A day later, in an interview with ARY News TV, Khan said his government "now has given a demarche to (the) American embassy," in reference to a diplomatic note over what he described as a foreign conspiracy to oust him from power. The White House denied the claim. What's next? Khan will have to step down if 172 members of the 342-member house vote against him. If he is ousted from power, the opposition parties are expected to appoint a new prime minister who can hold power until October 2023, when a new election is scheduled to be held.