The Charlotte Hornets announced on Friday that their head coach James Borrego has stepped down after ESPN and The Athletic both reported the news. "I want to thank JB for his hard work and commitment during these past four seasons," general manager Mitch Kupchak in a statement. "Beyond his work as a coach, he is a tremendous person. I wish him and his family the best in the future." The irony is, Borrego signed a multi-year contract extension with the team in August 2021, and then was fired after one season. Shams Charania of The Athletic revealed that it is Hornets owner Michael Jordan who made the decision to part ways with Borrego. ESPN reported that the blowout losses in the play-in tournament in the recent two seasons cost the Hornets their patience for Borrego. The team finished 10th in the Eastern Conference in both the 2020-21 and 2021-22 seasons though they won more games this season. However, the Hornets lost to the Indian Pacers 144-117 in 2021 and to the Atlanta Hawks 132-103 in 2022 in their first game of the play-in tournament, failing to reach the playoffs. The Hornets have a very young and talented franchise, especially on the offensive front. LaMelo Ball, Terry Rozier, Miles Bridges and P.J. Washington led their team to average to 115.3 points, the fourth-most in NBA this season. They also had the sixth-fastest pace of the league. Nonetheless, the team's incredible offense was held back by their disappointing defense. They allowed 114.9 points per game, the sixth-most in NBA this season. The Hornets were league bottom three in containing their opponents in 3-point shooting, offensive rebounding and delivering assists. That's why when the game slowed down and grew more physical, like in the play-in tournament, the Hornets would lose quickly. If they are looking for new coach, they should add "defensively-minded" to the requirement. Frank Vogel, who has been one of NBA's top options for coaching defense, was also fired by the Los Angeles Lakers. He may be able to give the Hornets what they need.