In this week's edition of Science Saturday, we look at the latest news in science and tech fields, ranging from GM mosquitoes to plastic contamination of blood. Disease prevention Over 2 billion genetically modified male mosquitoes will be buzzing soon in the U.S. states of Florida and California. The male mosquitoes, which do not bite, were created by British biotech firm, Oxitec. They will be released into the wild to mate with females, which do bite. The males carry a protein that causes any females born to die before maturity. The aim is to reduce the female mosquito population and slow the spread of diseases, like Zika, dengue and yellow fever. The project follows a pilot program in the Florida Keys last year. Plastic in blood Tiny plastic particles were found in almost 80 percent of people tested by a group of researchers from the Netherlands. The discovery shows that the particles can travel around the body and may lodge in organs. The impact on health is unknown but researchers are concerned, as microplastics cause damage to human cells in the laboratory. Air pollution particles are already known to enter the body and cause millions of early deaths a year. Scientists say further research is urgently needed, given that plastic production is set to double by 2040. Ozone layer damage Wildfires can damage the ozone layer. A new study shows that massive Australian wildfires in 2019 and 2020 injected over a million tons of smoke particles as high as 35 kilometers into the atmosphere. This caused chemical reactions that canceled out a decade's worth of recovery. Though the ozone layer will repair itself over time, wildfires are harming its ability to provide ultraviolet protection. Researchers say the increase in exposure to ultraviolet radiation will likely impact the health of humans, plants and animals. Antarctica temperatures A massive ice shelf has collapsed in Antarctica. The Conger ice shelf, identified as iceberg C-38, broke off after temperatures hit a record high of minus 11.8 degrees Celsius. This is more than 40 degrees Celsius above normal temperatures there. The ice shelf is believed to have been about 1,200 square kilometers, around the size of Los Angeles. Scientists say such events have been increasing in frequency due to climate change.