The 131st China Import and Export Fair, also known as the Canton Fair, opened on Friday, aiming to further China's domestic and international dual circulation. The 10-day fair, which lasts from April 15 to 24, includes an online exhibition, matchmaking events for suppliers and buyers, and cross-border e-commerce promotion. With diverse business events held virtually, the fair presents more than 2.9 million products covering 16 categories of products ranging from consumer goods to home appliances. Exhibitors from 32 countries and regions are slated to attend the event. Wang Shouwen, vice minister of commerce, delivered the opening speech via video link. "The Chinese government has set great store by the Canton Fair. President Xi Jinping twice sent congratulatory messages in which he gave high credit to its important contribution, proposed that it should become a major platform for China to open up in an all-round way, pursue high-quality development of foreign trade, and connect domestic and international circulations," he said at the opening ceremony. According to the organizer, over 25,000 exhibitors around the globe will showcase their products from 50 exhibition areas across 16 categories, in addition to a designated "rural vitalization" area for all exhibitors from less-developed areas. The official Canton Fair website will feature exhibits and exhibitors, connection for companies across the globe, new product releases, virtual exhibition halls, as well as supporting services such as press, events, and conference support. To improve the user experience with more efficient trade connections, the Canton Fair has applied continuous optimization to functions and services that facilitate and support interaction and trade transactions between various parties in order to discover market potential in China. "The fair has developed into one of China's top-ranking international trade events. The trade show will launch eight promotion events highlighting China's smart manufacturing, as well as 50 'trade bridge' activities which over 400 professional buyers have pre-registered for," said Xu Bing, Canton Fair spokesperson and deputy director general of the China Foreign Trade Center. "The Canton Fair is dedicated to offering more accurate matchmaking for suppliers and buyers. We have upgraded the digital platforms and channels to enhance the efficiency of trade. Over 20 top multinational corporations from overseas and more than 500 companies from China have registered for our value-added cloud promotion events," he added. The pandemic and global challenges have shifted mindset in the German entrepreneur sector, especially when people are looking for reliable solutions, Andreas Jahn, head of Politics and Foreign Trade of the German Association for Small and Medium-Sized Businesses, told CGTN. "China, as a matter of fact, is a very reliable partner." The fair will also invite experts from international trade promotion agencies, business associations, think tanks and trade service providers to share their insight on trade policies, market trends and industrial advantages. Market analysis on the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership and Belt and Road Initiative is also on the agenda.