Editor's note: Thomas O. Falk is a London-based political analyst and commentator. He holds a Master of Arts in international relations from the University of Birmingham and specializes in U.S. affairs. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. For Boris Johnson, the scandal over banned lockdown parties at Downing Street has become a never-ending story. Labor politicians accuse Johnson of having lied to parliament and are therefore calling for his resignation. Johnson initially ruled out breaches of the rules in the lower house and later claimed not to have noticed anything about it. However, it later emerged that he had himself indeed attended several of the meetings in question. With his violation being confirmed, Johnson became the first prime minister in the history of the UK to break the law during his tenure. On April 21, Members of Parliament (MPs) in the House of Commons are to vote on whether a committee should examine Johnson's statements on the matter for their truthfulness. This is pivotal, as deliberate deception of parliament is considered a clear reason for resignation. Like most politicians in peril, Johnson has attempted to divert the conversation. First with Ukraine, where he presented himself as the leading figure in the Western alliance – for better or worse. Now, India is next, and the prospects are meager, to say the least. However, Johnson doesn't need success. He needs headlines. This is probably the only reason why the trip to India is essential. Officially, the two-day trip will primarily focus on defense, energy security and trade. India had recently played only a subordinate role in the travel plans of top European politicians. However, with the situation in Ukraine ongoing, the West is now embarking on an unusually extensive diplomatic offensive. Johnson will demand nothing less than distancing from Russia from New Delhi. At a cabinet meeting this week, he said the UK seeks to work with countries like India "to provide alternative sourcing options" and "diversify supply chains away from Russia," reports suggest. However, Johnson is well aware that India's economic ties with Russia, including oil and coal imports, are far too strong to be severed. Moreover, Russia has also been India's top arms supplier for many decades, Johnson's plan to deepen defense cooperation with India to reduce its dependence on Russia notwithstanding. Last but not least, Johnson will discuss a new free trade agreement, which the UK and India started at the beginning of the year. In the event of an agreement, the annual trade volume could increase by the equivalent of more than 30 billion euros a year, according to Reuters. Now, this might be the only feasible goal to achieve for Johnson. But even the free trade agreement is far from being a certainty. In essence, Johnson's trip to India is a political stunt, and it seems very little will be achieved. It makes it all the more critical that the public does not get sidetracked. As a reminder: while the UK was in lockdown, one was not allowed to visit friends or even family. Weddings were only permitted under strict regulations and so were funerals. Life essentially ceased to exist for ordinary Brits. But not for Johnson and his aides at No. 10 Downing Street. Being head of government means more than presenting oneself on the world stage of diplomacy and more than passing laws. Johnson is supposed to be a role model and is to lead by example because the prime minister sets the tune for people to dance to. However, if the prime minister literally dances himself, as has now been established, the message it sends to the population is fatal. The idea that different rules apply to "those up there," the elites, while everyone else has to play by the rules further undermines the distrust that many people already feel in politics. And with that happening, democracy increasingly loses the delicate foundation on which it stands. With every misstep by Johnson, the system fails more people who will turn their back on it. Johnson's visit to India must not conceal his wrongdoings and should be labeled for what it is: a political stunt to generate headlines other than his domestic crisis. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion section.)