Who could stop Karim Benzema? The French talisman was again the star act of an incredible team performance as Real Madrid turned on the style in their 3-1 rout of a Chelsea side who ended knackered and desperate for the referee, Clement Turpin, to blow the whistle of a thrilling Champions League quarterfinal first leg tie.  The enduring value of Benzema is for all to see as he has become the first player ever to score a European hat-trick against the English giants, with the 34-year-old netting his three goals after just 46 minutes of the blockbuster showdown. He has scored 37 goals in 36 appearances in all competitions this season. "Benzema is more of a leader every day," beamed Real coach Carlo Ancelotti, who made an unforgettable return to Stamford Bridge where he won the Premier League and FA Cup. "He feels more and more important in this team and I think that's what makes the difference. He has so much more personality. He is an example for everyone. "I think it helped us that our buildup play from the back was good. We found space between the lines. And then with Benzema we were dangerous." Wednesday night's treble was Benzema's second successive Champions League hat-trick after he produced a masterclass in the thrashing of Paris St-Germain in the last 16. Only Cristiano Ronaldo, Lionel Messi and Luiz Adriano have previously achieved the feat in the showpiece event's history. Few could have predicted that Benzema would get even better with age. Of Madrid's last 11 goals, 10 have been scored by the ageless striker. And he has now scored 82 Champions League goals, just three behind third-placed Robert Lewandowski on the all-time list.  "They're magic nights, like the other day at the Bernabeu against Paris," said Benzema, who was awarded Player of the Match. "Today we came out to win, to show we're Real Madrid. Things worked out well for us as we played well, from the first minute to the last.  "I'm happiest to have scored the third. I missed one in the first half, and I was thinking about that chance because it's very important to score goals. Then I got another and I'm very happy." For defending champs Chelsea and their manager Thomas Tuchel, the humiliation was total. It was not as if this result had come out of nowhere, with the Blues having escaped on several occasions this season. Last weekend, they were even hammered 4-1 at home by newly promoted Brentford. When asked whether the tie was still alive, Tuchel said, "No, not at the moment, no. Because we have to find our level back. I don't know where it is since the international break. Our first half is a repetition of the second half against Brentford, in a quarterfinal of the Champions League against Real Madrid." Tuchel admitted he doesn't have a clue as to why his players have suddenly lost their way.  "We were so far off our level in absolutely everything the game demands; you cannot expect a result for his kind of performance," he said. "After the international break we don't look the same and I don't really have an explanation, as before we were on a long winning streak and were very competitive.  "It's alarming. Two games, seven goals conceded, but nothing has changed." Ancelotti, however, refused to rule out Chelsea's possible comeback in the second leg in Madrid next week.  "Of course, we have a lead but the tie is still open," he said. "We no longer have the away goals rule, which is an advantage for Chelsea now. I think Real Madrid played better but there is another game to go and anything can happen."