China-EU cooperation is deeply rooted in solid public support, extensive common interests and similar strategic needs, said a Chinese Foreign Ministry official on Saturday, adding that the bilateral cooperation won't be reversed by any force. Wang Lutong, director-general of the Department of European Affairs of the Foreign Ministry, made the remarks when he briefed the media about the China-EU Summit held via video link on Friday. China and the EU have agreed to hold high-level dialogues after the summit, said Wang. The two sides will hold high-level strategic dialogue, economic and trade dialogue, environment and climate dialogue, digital dialogue, as well as people-to-people dialogue to implement results and conclusions of the summit. "The summit once again shows that dialogue and cooperation remain the dominant feature of China-EU relations, and benefit is the keynote of bilateral cooperation," he said. Noting that the China-EU relationship has its own value, he stressed it is not targeted at any third party, nor is it dependent on or controlled by any third party. Wang underlined that both sides believe that the stability of China-EU relations will help address the uncertainties in the international situation. On stabilizing the world economy, China and the EU will strengthen coordination and discuss energy security, food security, industrial and supply chain stability and other issues that have a major impact on the economy, he said. "On economic and trade cooperation, the leaders expressed satisfaction with the record high level of China-EU trade in goods last year and agreed to advance the ratification process of the investment agreement between China and the EU," he said. China and the EU also agreed to promote cooperation in green industry, climate change, biodiversity protection, scientific and technological innovation and people-to-people exchanges, he added. Noting that the leaders also exchanged views on global hotspot issues such as the Russia-Ukraine conflict, implementation of the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, and the Afghan issue, he said that China and the EU share the same general direction of de-escalation, cessation of hostilities, promotion of peace talks and maintenance of peace and stability.