How would you imagine your life when you're well over 80 or even in your 90s? Well, for one renowned Chinese artist, it's all about driving luxury motorcars, being in fashion magazines and publishing poetry collections. But Huang Yongyu's life wasn't always so fast-paced. A self-taught artist, he's better known for the primitive beauty of his wood prints and ink paintings. Titled "Jian Xiao Ji" – literally translated as "A Collection of Things that Incur Ridicule," the new collection at the National Museum of Modern Chinese Literature contains dozens of poems the artist penned over the course of seven decades. Some of the illustrations and excerpts are in their original manuscripts. During a visit to the exhibition, Huang revealed that the illustrations were pure improvisation, and he just took a stack of paper and drew on it. Huang was born in the central Chinese province of Hunan in 1924. He left his hometown of Fenghuang in his teens and traveled around the country. Pursuing his lifelong dream, he took on various jobs, learning all kinds of artistic skills along the way. Through an unusual mix of modernity and what he calls "an aroma of soil," his work soon touched the lives of many. When asked what an artist's mission should be, the maestro's answer is to discover things people don't usually pay attention to. "When they see that from your works, they are simply amazed at why they don't see something as simple and obvious," Huang said. The unique charm of his works also extends overseas. In the 1990s, Huang went to Europe, visiting cities like Paris and Florence, depicting all kinds of people and scenery along the way. He later brought the paintings and stories of his travel experiences together in his essay "Along the River Seine to Florence." First published in 2006 and translated into Italian, it became a bestseller in China. "Though cultural differences do exist, there's a way to paint around it," Huang expressed in his previous interviews. He said he painted from a child's point of view, just like the French painter Henri Rousseau who's known for his primitive and naive style. For Li Jingze, curator of the National Museum of Modern Chinese Literature, what's most valuable about Huang's work is that as someone who's already in his 90s, he still exudes an incredible amount of creative energy and that childlike innocence for this world and his life. "In his eyes, the world is still fresh and bright," Li said, adding, "We see that in all of his novels, poems and paintings. A man in his 90s who still maintains a child's mind." Both as an artist and as a person, Huang has lived his life to the fullest. And as the "Mr Young-at-Heart" stresses, the sky's the limit and your best years are always ahead of you.