Editor's note: Xin Ping is a commentator on international affairs who writes regularly for CGTN, Global Times and China Daily. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. U.S. President Joe Biden recently made a "generous" announcement that the U.S. will welcome up to 100,000 Ukrainian refugees. As the Spanish magazine Mundo Obrero commented, the announcement only "exposes the racist hypocrisy of Washington's immigration practices." The treatment of refugees from Ukraine contrasts sharply with those from other countries. A senior director of a U.S. NGO Human Rights First has put it quite frankly that while they've been working to convince the U.S. administration for months, even for years, to make a Temporary Protected Status (TPS) designation for refugees from the war-torn Afghanistan, Ethiopia and Cameroon, it took only nine days for a Ukrainian refugee to get a TPS. According to Ayanna Pressley, a U.S. congresswoman, more than 20,000 Haitians have been deported from the U.S. since President Biden took office. Memory is still fresh that U.S. Customs and Border Protection agents whipped Haitian migrants on horseback to push them back from the U.S. border. A recent Pew Research showed that nearly four-in-ten (39 percent) Latinos in the U.S. worry that they, a family member or someone close to them could be deported. And don't forget the Afghans. According to a Newsweek report, thousands of Afghan refugees "are still missing out on some of the basic resources promised to them", and people have been placed in substandard housing, waiting to receive a "welcome check" from the U.S. government. Now, since receiving Ukrainian refugees has become a priority, support and resources allocated to Afghan refugees are dwindling. Satar Mohammed, a community activist, sighed that Afghans "have been thrown away like garbage." While the Biden administration expressed unprecedented compassion towards refugees from Ukraine, refugees from other countries still face rude and ruthless deportation. Why the brilliance of "humanitarianism" doesn't shine upon migrants equally? Isn't the U.S. government an advocate of the doctrine that "all men are created equal?" CBS News reporter Charlie D'Agata has given the answer when he said that "Ukraine isn't a place like Iraq or Afghanistan that has seen conflict raging for decades. This is a relatively civilized, relatively European country." Maybe another reason is that Ukraine is a tool of the U.S. and NATO in the geopolitical game with Russia. Ironically, refugees from Ukraine were quick to witness the U.S. government's hypocrisy. The 100,000 refugees promise is probably just a rubber check for Ukraine. Till now, the U.S. government has neither unveiled any detailed plan on how the Ukrainian refugees can enter the country, nor made any changes to its lengthy and cumbersome resettlement procedure. According to New York Times, in the past ten days till April 6, more than 2,000 Ukrainians made their way to the U.S. border from Mexico. And they had to wait in the chilly spring wind along the U.S.-Mexican border for days to be called for an entry interview. The Newsweek reported that U.S. immigration authorities placed Ukrainian refugees in detention after they tried to enter the country to reach family or friends living in the U.S. Is this what President Biden means by "welcome?" Biden's announcement is no more than typical gesture politics, as the U.S. seems never care about the well-being of the refugees, regardless of where they come from, Afghanistan, Haiti, or Ukraine. The only thing the U.S. government cares is its self-interests. The Ukrainian refugee issue is just another slap in the face of so-called U.S. "humanitarianism." (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries on CGTN Opinion Section.)