UEFA have welcomed the decision made by a Spanish judge on Thursday to lift measures preventing them and world football governing body FIFA from punishing clubs involved in the European Super League project. Judge Sofia Gil, head of the commercial court in Madrid in charge of the European Super League case, upheld UEFA's appeal against the precautionary measures issued a year ago. In a statement on Thursday, the European governing body said, "UEFA welcomes this decision and is considering its implications." The judgment can be appealed. UEFA could, in theory, now issue punishments to Real Madrid, Barcelona and Juventus, the three clubs that remain officially attached to the hugely controversial project that collapsed last year when the other eight clubs pulled out. The three clubs have so far not responded to requests for comment. UEFA threatened last year to ban clubs from its existing tournaments, including the Champions League. But a ruling in April last year had said FIFA and UEFA must "refrain from taking any measures or action, or from issuing any statement, which prevents or hinders, directly or indirectly, the preparation of the European Super League." The European Super League was launched by Liverpool, Manchester United, Arsenal, Chelsea, Manchester City and Tottenham, as well as Barca, Real Madrid, Atletico Madrid, Juventus, AC Milan and Inter Milan, and was seen as a rival to UEFA's established Champions League. The proposed league threatened to upend the long-established order of elite soccer in Europe by guaranteeing its founding clubs places rather than making them qualify through their domestic competitions. The project unraveled within 48 hours amid vociferous criticism from fans, governing bodies and even politicians. But Real Madrid, Barcelona and Juventus have refused to give up on the idea. The three clubs are awaiting a ruling from the European Court of Justice on whether UEFA's control of European competitions amounts to an illegal monopoly, which could revitalize the project. (With input from agencies)