Thomas Tuchel, manager of Chelsea, said on Friday that he sent his players a serious message about the club's recent under performance. "It was not a discussion type of meeting yesterday," Tuchel said. "It was more that I gave my point of view and that is sometimes also necessary. We take the players' views very seriously and often into account, but after the last two games we thought it is necessary to give our point of view." It has been a rough week for Chelsea. First they lost 4-1 to Brentford at Stamford Bridge in London in the Premier League on April 2, then suffered the 3-1 loss to Real Madrid again at home in the first leg of the UEFA Champions League quarterfinals on Wednesday. Chelsea are already hopeless in the Premier League title competition, but the 4-1 loss to Brentford cut their lead over the following Tottenham Hotspur and Arsenal to only five points. If Chelsea drop out of top four, they will miss the Champions League next season, which can be tens of millions of euros in revenue losses. The 3-1 loss to Real at home was also too bad for Chelsea to reverse the situation in the second leg at Santiago Bernabeu in Madrid on April 12. "It was behind closed doors and in an atmosphere where everybody can take criticism. I feel involved in a development like this. We don't point fingers and we don't look for people that are guilty. We are in this together. We needed to point out some things in our game with which we are not happy and where could have defended better, done better," Tuchel said. One of the biggest problems of Chelsea is their midfielder N'Golo Kante whose form has been fluctuating. When he was in the good touch, Kante was still one the best in his position; but when he underperformed, he became a nightmare on the pitch. "One thing is very clear, N'Golo is a key player with outstanding and unique qualities," Tuchel said. "For other teams, maybe it is some strikers or central defenders. For us, it is N'Golo, a unique player who can give something to the team that nobody else can." Chelsea have another nine games to play in Premier League and their opponents include direct competitor Arsenal for Champions League and tough team like Manchester United.