As people around the globe observe World Intellectual Property (IP) Day on April 26, China is finishing its yearly national awareness-raising campaign. Back in 2004, China set aside the week from April 20 to 26 as the time to raise awareness of IP rights. The week was then upgraded to the National Intellectual Property Publicity Week in 2009. This year's World IP Day focuses on young people, with many activities in China targeting the new generation. Free NFTs The China National Intellectual Property Administration (CNIPA) decided to give out free non-fungible tokens (NFTs) to attract young people. Officials distributed 20,000 digital copies of pictures featuring IP protection, and blockchain-based technology was used to ensure everyone received a unique copy. When CGTN Digital editors checked the distribution website on Tuesday afternoon, all copies had been distributed. So, we can only show you non-NFT copies of the four artworks. On-site copyright registration In Kunming City, southwest China's Yunnan Province, it's time for blue jacarandas to flower. Many residents love to view the flowers and take photos and videos to remember them. A local publishing house decided to use the opportunity to help people experience the process of copyright registration. They set up a temporary registration office near the flowers. When residents finished taking pictures and videos, they helped them register the copyright of their artwork on-site. Residents can also register online to get a digital certificate. "The certificate is a solid proof of IP rights protection," said Chen Yuedan, who worked at the temporary office. "It's also required if you want to sell your artwork." Less complaints on WeChat As one of the largest mobile apps in China, WeChat also listed some data on Tuesday about IP protection on the platform. "In the past year, the WeChat platform ... punished more than 150,000 public accounts that infringed upon the IP rights of others and 1,078 malicious accounts," read a statement sent to CGTN Digital. Tencent said WeChat also helped brands avoid infringements. Hundreds of brands used the app to protect their own rights and after years of effort, complaints reduced by 30 percent in 2021 compared with that in 2020. During the Beijing Winter Olympics, WeChat helped the organizing committee find pirated videos, artworks and peripherals.