The Liaoning Flying Leopards swept the Zhejiang Lions 4-0 in the CBA (Chinese Basketball Association) Finals to win the championship on Tuesday night. As the third person in league history to win a title as both player and coach, Yang Ming said the honor is well-deserved. As the two teams the Flying Leopards beat in the finals and semifinals, the Lions and Guangdong Southern Tigers, both missed key players due to injuries, some questioned the Flying Leopards' victories and even called them the least competitive championship team. That's nothing but unfair. Staying healthy is always a key factor in a basketball team's overall strength. The 2021-22 CBA season endured a lot because of COVID-19. So did the teams, especially those that played more games in the playoffs. "Based on the development of the season, players' performance and form adjustments, I'm convinced we are the best team," Yang said. "I'm even happier that all of our players have been improving for the whole season. They did so because they trained hard, beat injuries and wanted to contribute to the team. I want to pay respect to our players and congratulate them for winning the title." After the award ceremony, the Flying Leopards returned to their locker room. The first thing Yang told his players was: "No matter what others say, I believe this championship is well-deserved!" Zhao Jiwei was named the CBA Finals MVP, but he said every member of the team was an MVP. "It's not like one of us is the best player, or performs better than anyone else," Zhao said. "We are a united franchise that tries to perform well in the games. I think everyone is MVP." Zhang Zhenlin was with the Flying Leopards when they lost to the Southern Tigers in the Finals last year. He averaged 19 points and seven rebounds back then, but still couldn't win the title for his home team. This time, his dream came true. "This championship is for Liaoning, my hometown," Zhang said. "I want to go back and spend some time with my parents. I have been away from them and playing basketball for two years. I want to be there with them and do what a son should do." Fu Hao made key contributions to the Flying Leopards in this series. His offensive presence was a huge headache for the opponents' head coach Du Feng. "I hope our victory can encourage those who have a dream," Fu said. "If you fail, you just need to work hard. I want to thank Guangdong because they made us better." Many fans felt bad for Guo Ailun, who missed out on being named the Finals MVP. But his reaction to winning the title was also the most special one. "I felt like I kept working and surpassed myself this time. Sometimes it's a test to my form, my body, but I passed it," Guo said. "This team played with no regrets. I gave my everything and have no expectations for the future."