The prodigious gulf in quality between these two behemoths of English football is apparent for all to see.  With Manchester United's appalling 5-0 home defeat at the hands of Liverpool still fresh in memory, Jurgen Klopp's team added insult to injury by thrashing the Red Devils 4-0 again in the reverse fixture at Anfield on Tuesday night. According to stats provider Opta, the aggregate scoreline of 9-0 is the most one-sided pair of league results between United and Liverpool in history. It was also United's second heaviest aggregate defeat of all time. Their biggest came in the 1892-93 season when Sunderland beat United, 5-0 and 6-0. Liverpool have become the first club to score at least eight Premier League goals against United in a single season. Their talisman Mohamed Salah, who scored a hat-trick at Old Trafford when the sides last met in October, delivered another masterclass and netted two brilliant goals.  The Egyptian striker is the first ever player to score five goals against United in a single season. He is also only the second player to both score and assist in home and away games against United in a single season, after Mesut Ozil in 2015-16. "They make our life easier in the midfield and in the back," beamed Salah in the post-game interview. "They always try to give us the ball in a one-against-one situation so it makes our life much easier. When we defend, we had a clean sheet here and a clean sheet there." It's worth noting that both sets of supporters united in a minute of applause in support of Cristiano Ronaldo and his family following the death of his baby boy. But on the pitch, United were abject and lacked coherence and ambition.  Their manager Ralf Rangnick was unable to contain his frustration during the press conference. "It is embarrassing, it is disappointing, maybe even humiliating," he fumed.  "We have to accept they are six years ahead of us now. When Klopp came [in October 2015] they changed at the club and lifted not just the team but the club and city to a new level. That is what needs to happen with us in the next transfer windows." However, Rangnick refused to point fingers at his players. "I don't think they have mentally checked out, it is just a different level," he said. "They have better players than we have and this was really reflected by the result today." "There will be a rebuild for sure, that was obvious in the first three or four weeks for me. For us it is extremely embarrassing. We just have to admit they are better than us – I would say they have 25 Formula One cars in their squad. It almost looked as if we were afraid to be outplayed." The victory moves Liverpool two points clear of defending champions City, who face Brighton at Etihad Stadium on Wednesday, while United remain sixth, struggling to secure one of the four Champions League qualification spots. Klopp, meanwhile, has warned his players not to get carried away after blitzing United. "It is for supporters if they want to celebrate, not for me. I am not here to humiliate the opponent," observed the Liverpool boss. "We started the game better than we finished, in between we had a spell where we had to adjust to the different high-press system organization of the opponent after half-time. We were clearly better in the first half."