AC Milan will stay top of Serie A this weekend thanks to Friday's 2-0 win over struggling Genoa after Inter Milan struck first with a 3-1 victory at Spezia. Milan, who are reportedly to be sold to Bahrain-based investment firm Investcorp, reclaimed the summit after briefly being bumped down to second before kick-off in front of over 70,000 fans at the San Siro stadium. But Rafael Leao's cushioned 11th-minute volley from Pierre Kalulu's cross and a Junior Messias strike with three minutes remaining were enough for Stefano Pioli's side to maintain their two-point lead over local rivals Inter. Portugal forward Leao's sumptuous finish was the highlight of an otherwise uninspiring display which showed why Milan have struggled to put away Serie A's lesser lights since the turn of the year. It was a night of few chances for the seven-time European champions, with Olivier Giroud's miscued overhead kick in the 57th minute the first truly good chance after Leao's opener. Leao then went close to doubling the hosts' lead when he forced a good save from Salvatore Sirigu. Messias put the home crowd into party mood when he smashed in the second after being denied by the Italy international in the Genoa goal. A third straight win for Simone Inzaghi's side confirmed their revival after a tricky February and March and keeps them on Milan's coattails. "Today it was really important to win. We're very happy but we need to carry on like this," Inter midfielder Marcel Brozovic told DAZN. "We're a good team, we've got six matches to go and we need to win all of them." It was Brozovic who opened the scoring for the away side with his first league goal of the season, and it was a spectacular effort for the man who makes Inter tick. The Croatia midfielder met Danilo D'Ambrosio's knockdown with a beautiful left-foot shot which flew past Ivan Provedel and set Inter on the road to victory. Martin Erlic flashed a header just wide shortly after the break but Inter missed some good chances before Martinez doubled their lead. The worst miss came in the 49th minute, when the otherwise excellent Ivan Perisic snatched the ball off Edin Dzeko's feet just as the Bosnian was set to slam in the second. Denzel Dumfries smashed over from close range but Martinez netted his 15th league goal of the season when he met Perisic's inswinging cross and clipped home the second. Giulio Maggiore pulled a goal back with a superb shot with two minutes remaining but Sanchez rolled home Martinez's cross in the final seconds to make sure of the win to give Inter a temporary lead in Italy's four-way title race. Elsewhere, Fulham were stunned 2-1 by struggling Derby County on Friday and were made to wait a little longer to secure their return to the Premier League. The Championship leaders would have sealed a third promotion in five seasons with victory and they were on track when Fabio Carvalho put them ahead in the 20th minute. But Wayne Rooney's Derby hit back with goals from teenager Luke Plange in the 51st minute before Tosin Adarabioyo put through his own goal in the 73rd-minute. The result leaves Derby nine points behind fourth-bottom Reading and safety while Fulham still enjoy a comfortable advantage at the top with five games to play. (With input from agencies)