More cooperation achievements in different sectors will continue to come this year, said Ma Zhaoxu, Chinese vice foreign minister and coordinator for China's BRICS Affairs, during a video meeting on Tuesday. China, which holds the BRICS rotating chair this year, has successfully held more than 20 key activities with the support of all parties, Ma said. The themes of the activities ranged from global governance, pandemic prevention and control to digital economy and sustainable development. The BRICS Vaccine Research and Development Center was launched last month, Ma said, calling it a milestone for BRICS in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic. BRICS countries have also agreed to collaborate on maritime affairs to promote communication and trade, he added. "The coordinators of other BRICS countries highly appreciated the progress made under China's chairmanship, and said they will continue to fully support China as it prepares for the BRICS summit to ensure it is a complete success," Ma said. The countries are working together on topics such as improving multilateral trade and World Trade Organization reform, Ma said, adding that a consensus has been reached in areas from digital economy to supply chain safety. As an important representative of emerging markets and developing countries, what BRICS achieves and what BRICS says are not only highly crucial to the bloc itself, but also will be influential for the world's peace and development, Ma said. Under this year's theme – "Build high-quality partnerships and create a new era of global development" – China expects to enjoy new opportunities alongside other BRICS members, and also jointly face new challenges and risks, he said, noting a stronger, greener and healthier global development could be achieved through a comprehensive, close, practical and inclusive partnership. Ma outlined China's expectations for BRICS in four aspects: uphold the world's peace and stability, support the improvement of economic governance, carry out practical cooperation in all aspects, and promote sustainable global development. Faced with the COVID-19 pandemic and regional tensions, as well as the wider gap in different countries' economic recovery, China expects BRICS to protect the mutual benefits of emerging markets and developing countries to help accelerate the implementation of the 2030 Agenda.