The 2021-22 NBA regular season came to an end on Sunday as all 30 teams played their last of the 82 games on this day. Indiana Pacers 126-134 Brooklyn Nets (away teams come first) The Nets had six players reach double-digit points, including all five starters. Kyrie Irving had court-high 25 points, but the team's biggest contributor to victory was still Kevin Durant who played over 40 minutes to get a triple-double of 20 points, 10 rebounds and 16 assists. The Nets will host the Cleveland Cavaliers in the play-in tournament game at the Barclays Center on Tuesday. Washington Wizards 108-124 Charlotte Hornets LaMelo Ball missed one assist to get his sixth triple-double of the season. Despite the win, the Hornets will still participate in the play-in tournament as the 10th in the Eastern Conference, the same as the last season. They lost to the Pacers in the first game last season. This time, the Hornets will challenge the Atlanta Hawks at State Farm Arena on Wednesday. Milwaukee Bucks 115-133 Cleveland Cavaliers The Bucks sidelined almost all of their regular rotation in the last game. Jrue Holiday played eight seconds on the floor to trigger the $300,000 bonus in his contract. The team finally rank third in the East and will meet the Chicago Bulls in the first round of the playoffs. The home victory didn't get home advantage for the Cavaliers in the coming game against the Nets, which are definitely the better team on paper. The Cavaliers' best hope is for Jarrett Allen to return and hopefully in his best form. Atlanta Hawks 130-114 Houston Rockets The Hawks will be able to start the play-in tournament at home, but they need two straight wins to reach the playoffs. This is quite a regression for the team that made the Eastern Finals last season. Trae Young, who had a double-double of 28 points and 11 assists in Sunday's game, finished the regular season as the leader in both total points (2,155) and total assists (737). The Rockets are at the bottom of the league thanks to their 20-62 record. However, they are assured of a top 5 pick for the 2022 NBA Draft and share the 14-percent chance with another two teams for the first-overall pick. Boston Celtics 139-110 Memphis Grizzlies The Celtics' final ranking is second in the East, meaning there is a possibility for them to meet the Nets in the first round of the playoffs. Even if they don't, missing Robert Williams III leaves a huge breach on their defensive line. The Grizzlies were knocked out in the first round of the playoffs in the Western Conference last season. They have grown much better this season, either with or without Ja Morant. Their opponents in the first round will be either the Los Angeles Clippers or the Minnesota Timberwolves. Toronto Raptors 94-105 New York Knicks The Raptors remain fifth in the East despite losing their last game. They are unlikely to beat the Philadelphia 76ers in a four-to-seven-game series, but if they exploit well the absence of Matisse Thybulle in the three games in Toronto for not being fully vaccinated against COVID-19, it's not totally hopeless for the Canadian Team. The Knicks had an awful season, but it's hardly the worst in the past 10 years. Their priority in the offseason is to deal with Julius Randle and his big contract. Miami Heat 111-125 Orlando Magic The Heat finished as leader of the East in the end despite all the ups and downs they encountered during the long regular season. They have top defense and a delicate give-and-go offensive system. However, Jimmy Butler's outside shooting as well as how much has Tyler Herro has grown, will decide how far the team can go in the playoffs. Detroit Pistons 106-118 Philadelphia 76ers The 76ers' first rival in the playoffs will be the Raptors, while their best perimeter defender Thybulle can't play on the road. The Raptors have to one big enough to limit Embiid by himself, but they are one of the most aggressive teams on defense this season. Though Embiid has improved a lot, dealing with the ball is still one of his biggest weaknesses. Neither is James Harden a safe ball-handler. If the 76ers allow too much fast break, the Raptors may be more dangerous than they seem. Cade Cunningham finished his rookie season, starting all 64 games and averaging 17.4 points, 5.5 rebounds and 5.6 assists. He didn't shine as much as some of the previous first-overall selections like Karl-Anthony Towns, Ben Simmons or Zion Williamson in their rookie season, but neither was Cunningham a big disappointment like Andrew Wiggins or Markelle Fultz. After you take a look at everyone else from the 2021 Class, Cunningham is still the best of them. Chicago Bulls 124-120 Minnesota Timberwolves Lonzo Ball is not likely to return for the Bulls because of slow progress of recovering from meniscus surgery. That means the Bulls will have to begin the post season without their orchestrator, second-best perimeter defender and best 3-point shooter. The chance of the Bulls upsetting the Bucks in more than one game is remote. The Timberwolves will have to secure one win in the play-in tournament to reach the playffs for the second time in 18 years. They are unlikely to win facing either the Phoenix Suns or the Grizzlies, but Karl-Anthony Towns, D'Angelo Russell and Anthony Edwards should be able to make some noise on offense against the two dominant teams. San Antonio Spurs 120-130 Dallas Mavericks When Luka Doncic suffered that calf injury in the third quarter, both the Mavericks and their fans must be terrified. Without the 23-year-old who has averaged 28.5 points, 9.1 rebounds and 8.7 assists this season, the Mavericks will have no chance against the Utah Jazz. ESPN revealed that it may not be a significant injury and Doncic has six days to recover before the Game 1 at American Airlines Center on Saturday. The Spurs will need two wins in the play-in tournament to make the playoffs in probably the last season under head coach Gregg Popovich. It's not perfect, but not the worst way to say goodbye either, if the five-time NBA Champions coach retires after this season. Los Angeles Lakers 146-141 Denver Nuggets The Nuggets will challenge the Golden State Warriors in the first round of the playoffs. It's not the best rival because the Warriors know how to beat team relying on one playmaker; but it's not the worst opponent because Nikola Jokic is one of the best playmakers in NBA history and much bigger than everyone on the Warriors' roster. The Lakers finished their season 33-49, the worst record for any franchise LeBron James has ever played for. They probably have the most problems to solve during the offseason. Their front office decided to fire head coach Frank Vogel as the first step, according to ESPN. Oklahoma City Thunder 88-138 Los Angeles Clippers Paul George has already come back for the Clippers and he seems to be doing fine. So does Norman Powell. It's unclear if Kawhi Leonard will return too, but the Clippers managed to go so far with a short-handed squad. Whatever they achieve in the play-in tournament and the playoffs, they should be proud of themselves. Golden State Warriors 128-107 New Orleans Pelicans The Warriors managed to hold on to the third rank in the West. It's hard to say if the Nuggets are an easier rival than the Jazz. Coach Steve Kerr said Stephen Curry's status for Game 1 is still in the air. The good news for the team is, both Klay Thompson and Draymond Green were performing well in the last two games. The Pelicans began this season with a disappointing 1-12 record but the arrival of Wille Green as head coach became the game-changer. They are not the best of the four teams to compete in the play-in tournament, but the Pelicans should not be underrated. Sacramento Kings 116-109 Phoenix Suns The Suns finished the regular season with franchise-best 64 wins. They kept the old system from last year, refined it and fixed the weakness of thin storage in big men. Devin Booker has ascended to the MVP discussion. Chris Paul is much healthier. The Suns have every reason to aim for the throne. Congratulations to the Kings for enjoying the longest playoff drought in NBA history of 16 season all by themselves. Utah Jazz 111-80 Portland Trail Blazers The Jazz have been playing in the same style of shooting the most 3-pointers on offense and leaving Rudy Gobert to solve the problem on defense for years. It has never worked as well in the playoffs as it did in the regular season. Will they make a difference this time? The Trail Blazers won only 27 games this season, which was bad, but not bad enough to get the first-overall pick for this year's draft. The team already sent away C.J. McCollum. Is Damian Lillard the next?