Chinese figure skating pair Sui Wenjing and Han Cong, who won the gold medal at the 2022 Winter Olympics, held an event on Saturday to meet their fans and celebrate the 15th anniversary of their collaboration. Sui and Han first met in April 2007 and have gone through a lot together. They made one of the most promising pairs by winning titles at three straight World Junior Figure Skating Championships from 2010 to 2012. However, they had to overcome various difficulties such as body growth and injuries in the following years. Missing out on a gold medal at PyeongChang 2018 was a head-on blow to Han and Sui and placed them under immense pressure as they prepared for Beijing 2022. When the two secured Team China's ninth gold at Capital Indoor Stadium on February 19, it was one of the most memorable moments of their career. "Now that I look back, everything seems to be the best arrangement," Sui said. "We were the last pair to perform at the Winter Olympics. Every day of waiting was suffering to me. I am so grateful that we won the gold medal with the quadruple twist. We put so much effort into practicing it." Sui said her biggest regret is missing at least 10 Spring Festivals with her family. "I'm the happiest kid at home. My grandma will wake up early in the morning and cook me special dishes. I can have tofu braised in soy sauce and fried honey fungus for breakfast," she added. Han said he made great memories, friends and met remarkable coaches in the past 15 years. "If there was any regret, it became part of the sweet memories from the moment we won that gold," he added. The two separated more than once because of injuries in the 15 years and those were some of the most difficult moments in their career. Sui underwent ligament surgery in 2016 and spent a long time recovering. "Before our first practice since she returned, the doctor told us not to surpass 10 minutes," Han recalled. "But we forgot about time when we took each other's hand and practiced for 15 minutes. Both of us were so happy at that time." Han had a major surgery as well in 2020. "He could still visit me at the hospital after my injury," Sui recalled. "But I couldn't do that for him because of COVID-19. Neither did I know when he would come back or when we could perform again. I felt very depressed for a period of time. Every day was like a year to me." Han sees their career as the perfect example of "confronting hardship and beating it." They shared a lot together, including the early, exciting victories as a young pair, all of the difficulties on the way, coming close to winning the top honor and finally winning it. They never backed off and became the winner in front of folks at home.