Thirty-nine-year-old actor and comedian Firas Al-Ahmad is a father of four. But many more children at refugee camps light up with smiles when they see him arriving. Firas is known for his clown performance at the camps in Idlib, northwestern Syria, and children quickly surround him the moment he steps out of his car dressed up as a clown. He first came to the idea six years ago to perform for children at refugee camps, as he felt "children were in great need of joy, happiness and playfulness." During this holiday season, Firas once again toured camps and performed on the streets of Idlib – a much-needed source of relief for Syrian children, who have been exposed to years of violence, with those under the age of 10 knowing nothing but war. "It's a simple idea. It's important that children forget their worries. It's something to help them forget the suffering of war, displacement and the worries of homelessness, even if it's for a short period of time," he said. During his performance, Firas uses puppets to deliver strong and meaningful messages to his audiences on topics covering global issues such as the impact of war, diseases and the coronavirus pandemic. He also teaches children about emotions, respect and honesty through his stories. In some visits, Firas also gave the children some gifts, but felt heartbroken when he didn't have toys to offer them. But for the children greeting Firas, it appears that even the simplest balloons are enough to have them jumping up and down in excitement. In 2021, Firas also joined hands with some friends to launch a center called Pencheon in Idlib. This center offers entertainment and educational activities for children with special needs where all the leaders including Firas are working on a voluntary basis. When asked about his dream for the future of Syria, Firas said he wishes for the time when "the war will end and all children will return to their homes. And the children's smile which they had when they were in their homes returns to them – a smile that appeared without needing me or anyone, that didn't need a gift or a play. May that smile return, without the need for any treats that I offer." The United Nations Refugee Agency states that there are over 6.1 million children in need of aid in Syria. Firas intends to continue his work to reach as many kids as possible, one smile at a time. (Cover: Syrian actor and comedian Firas Al-Ahmad performs with puppets at refugee camps in Idlib, northwestern Syria. /CGTN )