The Miami Heat beat the Phoenix Suns 123-100 at Footprint Center on Saturday, achieving a surprising victory without Jimmy Butler and Bam Adebayo. The Heat drained a total of 22 3-pointers at 50 percent (22-44). Their field goal (FG) rate was also 50 percent (44-88). The Suns did not make many mistakes defensively in the first three quarters, but the Heat simply shot to kill on Saturday night. Duncan Robinson, who had been struggling with his touch this season, was 8-16 from downtown for the Heat to score 27 points off the bench. He made multiple triples in the face of his defender. "We've got a lot of guys who can really shoot, which obviously helps," Robinson said. "Sometimes shooting is contagious as well. Certainly ball movement is contagious. Ball's finding energy. Ball's finding the open guy." Tyler Herro went 3-4 from beyond the arc but was a sharp slasher for the Heat in Saturday's game, going 5-7 under the rim. Herro scored a season-high 33 points off the bench, improving his season average to 20.3 points per game and solidifying his lead in the race for Sixth Man of the Year. While Robinson and Herro offered solid production on offense, Kyle Lowry was able to focus on defense and orchestrating. He had a double-double of 14 points and 13 assists and limited Chris Paul to 3-9 in FGs for only nine points and seven assists with four turnovers. Devin Booker knocked down all 13 of his free throw attempts while scoring a team-high 26 points, but couldn't save Phoenix from the volcanic 3-point shooting of the Heat. "I think they came out way too comfortable," Booker said. "That is not a team you want to give some confidence in and let them see a couple of easy ones go in. It was too loose. They got to do whatever they wanted." Sabonis earns himself All-Star votes with dominant performance against Jazz The Indiana Pacers defeated the Utah Jazz 125-113 at Gainbridge Fieldhouse on Saturday, ending their six-game losing streak. Hassan Whiteside entered the starting lineup with Utah's defensive pillar Rudy Gobert sidelined due to COVID-19. Whiteside might play a similar role to that of Gobert against non-competitive opponents, but his shortcomings were evident against Domantas Sabonis and Myles Turner. Turner was not in his best form offensively on Saturday night, but he delivered four blocks for the Pacers, continuing to lead the NBA in the category with 2.9 per game. By contrast, Sabonis had one of the best offensive performances of his career, shooting 18-22 for 42 points. Not only did he dominate the paint, where he made 12 of 14 attempts, Sabonis drained six of his eight jumpers, including going 3-4 from downtown. Sabonis was named for the NBA All-Star game in the past two years and he deserves to be voted in for the third time in a row for his performance so far this season. The Pacers' highlights on Saturday did not only come from the two big men. Lance Stephenson, who is still on a 10-day contract with the team, recorded a double-double of 16 points and 14 assists off the bench for the home fans. Having scored 46 points, nine rebounds and 19 assists in two home games, Stephenson gave the Pacers enough reasons to keep him for the rest of the season. "Lance gives us a different vibe," Pacers head coach Rick Carlisle said. "There's a spark he has with his personality. There is change in disposition, body language and enthusiasm. Lance with the ball can make a lot of things happen. He has the ability to be unpredictable yet under control. The intriguing thing about Lance is he's so unselfish. He's a giver and he's an energy giver." Other games on Saturday (away teams come first): Memphis Grizzlies 123-108 Los Angeles Clippers Milwaukee Bucks 106-114 Charlotte Hornets Orlando Magic 92-97 Detroit Pistons