The Los Angeles Rams defeated the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in the NFL National Football Conference (NFC) Divisional round game at Raymond James Stadium on Sunday to make the NFC Championship Game. The Rams will host the San Francisco 49ers at SoFi Stadium on January 30. Rams quarterback (QB) Matthew Stafford passed at 28-38 for 366 yards and two touchdowns (TDs) with no interception. He also ran for a TD by himself. Stafford seemed to have walked out of the recent slump when he placed his team at the 27-3 lead in the third quarter. Then the Rams watched the Buccaneers rally like thunder, partly thanks to the four turnovers the Rams had in the fourth quarter. In 16 minutes, the Buccaneers scored three TDs. Leonard Fournette rushed for two, and Tom Brady connected with Mike Evans for one in the air.Brady, 44, completed 30 of 54 passes for 329 yards. He was sacked three times and allowed one interception. Despite that, he still led the Buccaneers at the entrance of another comeback win. Unfortunately, the Buccaneers' secondary defense failed to stop Cooper Kupp, who achieved two catches, one for 20 and the other 44 yards to drive it close enough for Matt Gay to make the 30-yard game-winning field goal. "In my mind, I live for those kind of moments," Stafford said. "I would have loved to have been taking a knee up three scores, but it's a whole lot more fun when you've got to make a play like that to win the game and just steal somebody's soul. That's what it feels like sometimes where they're sitting there going, 'Man, we just had this great comeback.' And you get to reach in there and take it from them." Having joined the NFL in 2009, Stafford only played three playoff games in his 12 seasons with the Detroit Lions and he lost all of them. Now he is going to play the NFC Championship Game at home, the second team to do so since 1990. Moreover, if the Rams beat the 49ers then, they will play Super Bowl LIV at home too on February 13. Brady failed to repeat his performance of winning back-to-back Super Bowl titles from 2003 and 2004. He still has one year left of his current contract with the Buccaneers. " I haven't put a lot of thought into it, so you know, we will just take it day by day and kind of see where we are at," he said when asked about his future. Chiefs beat Bills in berserker fight The Kansas City Chiefs defeated the Buffalo Bills 42-36 in overtime (OT) in the American Football Conference (AFC) Divisional game at Arrowhead Stadium on Sunday, securing qualification for the AFC Championship game against the Cincinnati Bengals at home on January 30. Unlike the other three Divisional games that ended on the last-second field goal, the competition between the Chiefs and the Bills came to an end when a rainbow pass from Patrick Mahomes reached Travis Kelce for a TD in their first drive in OT. The regulation was already smothering enough as the two sides scored 17 points in the last 72 seconds. When Mahomes connected with Tyreek Hill for a 64-yard TD and put the Chiefs back on top 33-29 at 1:14, there was not much breathing room left for the Bills. However, Josh Allen immediately proved why he's one of the few in today's league that can rival Mahomes. It took Allen six passes, four of which were completed, to find Gabriel Davis, who then scored a 19-yard TD. After Tyler Bass scored the extra point, the Bills led 36-33, and there were only 13 seconds left. That's how long it took for Mahomes to target at Travis Kelce, drive for 25 yards and create a 49-yard field goal for Harrison Butker to make. The game was tied at 36-36 and entered OT. Despite the loss, it's fair to say that the Bills could have won OT if they had been granted to attack first. "They made one more play than we did. That's what it came down to," Allen said. "Obviously, it hurts, and you don't like feeling like this, especially back-to-back years in the same place. We gotta find a way to be better next year and accomplish what we want to accomplish." "To be in this moment in this game against that team, to make a play to walk off a game at Arrowhead, I'll remember this game for the rest of my life," Mahomes said. "It was definitely special to win a game like this at Arrowhead. Obviously, the Super Bowl was probably number one for me, but this one is right up there. To be able to come back a couple of times, get points when we needed to get points, score touchdowns, get in field goal range, I'll remember it forever."