2022 marks the 30th anniversary of diplomatic ties between China and Kyrgyzstan. For the past 30 years, the two sides have boosted relations in trade, education, and people-to-people exchanges. Some from Kyrgyzstan have even found their life and passion in China, and Ashirmatov Nurislam is one of them. Nurislam has also got a Chinese name, Lu Di. He graduated from high school in his home country Kyrgyzstan seven years ago, and was eager to continue his studies abroad. He said China wasn't his first choice, until an education agency gave him a view of an opportunity. "They showed me pictures, and they said 'Avatar' was shot here, the movie 'Avatar.' I was like 'OK, that's really cool.' They also showed me pictures of some students who studied in China, and I was like, 'Yes, I am going there,'" said Lu Di. Lu Di studied international trade and economics at the Guangdong University of Foreign Studies on a full scholarship with a stipend. He said he got so used to life in Guangzhou that staying in China became a natural choice. After graduation, he started a business to promote Chinese brands to foreign customers. "If you ask foreign people about Chinese brands, they will only think of a few products, like Huawei, Xiaomi and Li-Ning, and that's it. Not a lot of foreign people know about Chinese brands. We want more people to know different Chinese brands," said Lu. One of his most recent projects is to promote a Chinese made and designed sunglasses brand to American consumers. He said one advantage of Chinese products is that they can provide high quality at a much cheaper price. "They (American consumers) love it. They love it, because some customers ask how we survive. Because we give such high quality, and also a lifetime guarantee, and the price is very low," said Lu Di. While the future is unknown, Lu Di insists his connection with China is certain. "Because I am doing business in China, and in the future I think every project I do, it will be related to China somehow. Wherever I go, I studied in China, I lived in China, I speak Chinese, I have lots of friends in China. China is already a big part of me," said Lu. Lu Di said he didn't have much expectations before coming to China but is thankful for the journey that has led him here. (Cover: Lu Di founded Guangzhou Tantora Information Technology to help promote Chinese brands to foreign costumer. /CGTN)