After missing out on the chance to win the Ballon d'Or, Bayern Munich striker Robert Lewandowski finally got the recognition he deserved on Monday night. During an online ceremony hosted in Zurich, Switzerland, the Polish scoring machine's astonishing record of achievement in a trophy-laden season saw him beat Lionel Messi and Mohamed Salah to win 2021 Best FIFA Men's Player of the Year for the second consecutive year. The prestigious award is given to the most outstanding player in men's football as voted for by an international jury comprising the current coaches of all men's national teams, current captains of all men's national teams, one specialist journalist from each territory represented by a national team and fans registered on FIFA's official website. Lewandowski broke the 49-year record for scoring the most Bundesliga goals in a calendar year with 43 in 34 league games. He guided Bayern to lift the FIFA Club World Cup early in 2021, followed by German Bundesliga title. The 33-year-old also played a pivotal role in Poland's World Cup qualifying campaign, scoring eight goals in eight appearances. "The first time will always be the first time, but to win it for a second consecutive year means a lot to me. I think my performances in the last couple of years have developed in the right direction," Lewandowski told FIFA. "I'm always delighted to win individual accolades because they're also awards for my team. Anything I win, the team also wins, and that makes me very proud." Meanwhile, Barcelona playmaker Alexia Putellas shrugged off the challenge of Chelsea's Sam Kerr and teammate Jennifer Hermoso to win the Women's Player of the Year. The 27-year-old now holds both of the highest individual awards in world football, having won the Ballon d'Or in November. Putellas has been one of the best stars in a brilliant Barca side, who thrashed Women's Super League winners Chelsea 4-0 to win their first ever Women's Champions League and retained their domestic Primera Division title. She is also Spain's most-capped player and was named UEFA Women's Player of the Year. "I never imagined I'd reach this level. But when you put in the work and people have faith in you, the results come," said Putellas, who has now become the first Spaniard to claim FIFA's top award. "I'm not sure 2021 has really sunk in for me yet, nor have the last few months really. But I'm just going to carry on and hopefully even more success will come." It was a productive night for Chelsea, who swept the best coach awards in a year when their men's and women's teams led by Thomas Tuchel and Emma Hayes reached their Champions League finals. Their Senegal shot-stopper Edouard Mendy won best men's goalkeeper, becoming the first African to win the accolade. Cristiano Ronaldo, who was omitted from the shortlist for the individual prize, still managed to make his presence felt. The Manchester United talisman appeared in person and was given the special award for becoming the highest-scoring male in international football history. The 36-year-old set a new milestone after scoring his 115th goal in 184 appearances for Portugal in October, surpassing Ali Daei's 109-goal record for Iran. "It was a dream. I never thought about beating that record, of scoring 115. The record was 109, right? So I'm six ahead," beamed Ronaldo after FIFA President Gianni Infantino handed over the award to him. "It's a special award for me to be the best goalscorer ever. It's a great achievement. I'm so proud. I never thought that one day I would be the number one. It's a great honor for me. It's great to be the record goalscorer of all time," he added. Ronaldo also reassured United supporters and his fans worldwide that he was not ready for retirement yet. "I still have the passion for the game. Not just to score goals. It's to entertain myself because I've played football since I was five, six years old," he said. "When I go out on the pitch, even in training, I'm still enjoying it and my motivation is still there. Even though I'm going to be 37 soon, I feel good, I feel motivated, I have been working hard since I was 18 years old and I continue to." "I love the game. I still have that passion. I want to continue. People ask me sometimes how many more years I'm going to play and I say I hope to play another four, five years. It's all mental because I think that if you treat your body well, when you need your body it's going to give it back," he concluded. Best FIFA Football Awards 2021 in full Men's Player of the Year: Robert Lewandowski Men's Coach of the Year: Thomas Tuchel Men's Goalkeeper of the Year: Edouard Mendy Special Award: Cristiano Ronaldo Puskas Award: Erik Lamela Fan Award: Denmark & Finland fans Fair Play Award: Denmark national team/Danish medical team and coaching staff Women's Player of the Year: Alexia Putellas Women's Coach of the Year: Emma Hayes Women's Goalkeeper of the Year: Christiane Endler Special Award: Christine Sinclair