A total of 137 people had been infected with COVID-19 in north China's Tianjin Municipality as of 2 p.m. Wednesday in the latest resurgence of the virus, according to local authorities. The cases include 76 locally transmitted confirmed cases and 17 asymptomatic carriers, said Han Jinyan, deputy head of the municipal health commission at a press conference on Wednesday. Other 44 people who tested positive are awaiting confirmation. All educational institutions in Tianjin, from primary schools to universities, have been directed to start winter break on Wednesday, according to local educational authorities. All people unrelated to schools are banned from entering schools, while students living on campus are not allowed to leave without permission, said Sun Zhiliang, deputy director of the Tianjin Municipal Education Commission. The schools are also required to provide daily reports about the health conditions of students and staff. Test everyone Tianjin on Wednesday morning mobilized all residents to undergo the second round of nucleic acid testing, after the first round of citywide screening starting Sunday found 77 positive samples for COVID-19. The municipality of 13.9 million people that neighbors capital Beijing launched the first round of citywide mass testing at 7 a.m. Sunday. A total of 11,912,280 people were sampled in the testing drive, and the results of 7,892,591 samples have been released so far. The infections were first reported on Saturday in Tianjin, and the gene sequencing found the first two locally transmitted confirmed cases were of the Omicron variant, said the municipal headquarters for COVID-19 prevention and control. The municipal government issued a notice calling on all residents to stay put while awaiting the results of their nucleic acid tests. In response to the COVID-19 outbreak, the government has used both online and offline channels to ensure citizens get daily necessities. People mostly place their orders online and receive their deliveries from neighborhood outlets. According to the Tianjin Municipal Bureau of Commerce, local authorities have mobilized major wholesale suppliers, supermarkets and vegetable markets to add inventory in order to cope with the market demand for meat, eggs and vegetables. Currently, Tianjin's e-commerce enterprises distribute 1,200 tonnes of food such as meat, vegetables, eggs and milk every day. On Tuesday alone, e-commerce platforms in Tianjin received over 100,000 orders, with commodity distribution covering about 2.8 million residents. Nineteen major e-commerce enterprises have mobilized more than 10,000 couriers to work with COVID-19 prevention and control staff to ensure the delivery of daily necessities to communities. Despite the impact on people's lives, the sudden spread of the virus has not affected the port logistics, as Tianjin is an important gateway port of northern China. According to Tianjin Port Group, the Tianjin Port has maintained orderly and safe production. From January 1 to 10, the port saw arrivals of 363 freight vessels, an increase of more than 15 percent year on year. More than 215,000 vehicles ran through the port area to transport logistics during the period, an increase of more than 4 percent year on year. The company vowed to ensure safe and smooth transport of imported goods concerning people's livelihood as well as Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and Paralympics. (With input from Xinhua)