The Cincinnati Bengals defeated the Kansas City Chiefs 27-24 in overtime (OT) in the American Football Conference (AFC) Championship Game at Arrowhead Stadium on Sunday, reaching Super Bowl LVI. The Bengals overcame an 18-point deficit to upset the Chiefs on the road. Their first score came on a field goal by Evan McPherson with 36 seconds remaining in the first quarter. By contrast, the Chiefs finished each of their first three drives with a touchdown (TD), with quarterback Patrick Mahomes finding his targets with ease. However, things went south in the second half as Mahomes seemed to have lost his mojo. The risky passing attempts that reached the hands of Tyreek Hill and Travis Kelce in the first half now failed to find their mark. When a deep pass to Hill was intercepted by Vonn Bell in OT, the Chiefs handed over the chance to decide the game to the Bengals. The Bengals did not waste it. Burrow drove the ball 42 yards on nine plays to set up a 31-yard game-winning field goal by McPherson, sealing Cincinnati's first AFC title since 1989. "I'd say nobody blinked an eye," McPherson said of his team trailing big early. "I think we all thought we were going to come back and win the game." "Usually when you lose the coin flip to those guys (Kansas City), you're going home," Burrow said. "Our defense really stepped up and made plays in the second half. And on offense we made plays when we had to. I thought the offensive line played really well all day. We started running the ball there at the end and that's exciting." As the first second-year No. 1-overall draft selection to reach a Super Bowl, Burrow completed 23 of 38 passes for 250 yards, two TDs and one interception. The 25-year-old wasn't even alive the last time his franchise competed for a Lombardi Trophy. "I wouldn't call it surreal, I would say it's exciting. I think if you would have told me before the season that we'd be going to the Super Bowl, I probably would have called you crazy. Then, you know, we play the whole season and nothing surprises me now," Burrow said. Mahomes was 26 of 39 for 275 yards and three TDs, but he also allowed two interceptions. Some of his offensive decisions in the second half were debatable, but he's been playing like this since joining the league, not to mention that he led the Chiefs to the Super Bowl twice and won it in 2020. "When you're up 21-3 at any point in the game, you can't lose it," Mahomes said. "I put that on myself." Rams to play Super Bowl at home The Los Angeles Rams beat the San Francisco 49ers 20-17 in the National Football Conference (NFC) Championship Game at SoFi Stadium on Sunday to host the Bengals on home turf in Super Bowl LVI on February 13. The Rams will be only the second team to play a Super Bowl at home. The Tampa Bay Buccaneers did it last year and won the title. Niners quarterback Jimmy Garoppolo failed to throw a touchdown in the two games leading up to the NFC Championship. That changed on Sunday as he completed 16 of 30 passes for 232 yards, two TDs and one interception against the Rams. His team led by as many as 10 points (17-7) in the road game. However, the 49ers seemed to lose their defensive magic later in the game as Rams quarterback Matthew Stafford continued to connect with Cooper Kupp and Odell Beckham Jr. to move the chains and find the endzone. Trailing 20-17 with 1:46 remaining in the final quarter, Garoppolo's attempt at a game-winning drive ended on 3rd and 13 with an interception by Travin Howard after Aaron Donald got his hands on the fleeing QB. Their hopes for a trip to Super Bowl LVI ended as well. "[The emotions] hit pretty hard in the locker room," Garoppolo said. "I think these next couple of days it will really start to settle in a little bit. Emotions are high after a game, win or loss, and it's one of those things you've got to be glad it happened, smile from it, and think about the good things." In his 13th NFL season, Stafford has finally secured his first wins in the postseason. He was not in the best form at the end of the regular season, but he's growing better and better, completing 31 of 45 passes for 337 yards, two TDs and one interception on Sunday. "I'm so proud of this group," Stafford said. "We've had high expectations all year, done nothing but everything in our power to try to meet those. It's a terrific group we have in there. Today wasn't easy. It wasn't perfect in some spots, but we found a way to win the game and that's what it's all about. I'm just happy and proud to be a part of this group. We've got some more work left to do."