Comoran President Azali Assoumani met with visiting Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Moroni, capital of Comoros on Thursday. The two sides vowed to strengthen bilateral ties, cooperation in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic, multilateral affairs and infrastructure construction. Azali said that Wang Yi's visit amid the pandemic reflects the great importance China attaches to the strategic partnership with Comoros. China's development is an opportunity for the Comoros, and China's success is Africa's success, he said. Comoros will always stand with China, Taiwan is an inalienable part of China and the reunification of China will be achieved, he added. Since the establishment of diplomatic ties, the two countries have always understood, trusted and supported each other, setting a good example of equal exchanges between countries of different sizes and stages of development, Wang said. Noting that China is willing to be the most reliable long-term partner of Comoros, he said that his country is ready to help Comoros achieve the three goals, namely achieving universal immunization within the year, eliminating malaria completely by 2025 and supporting the "Emerging Comoros Plan 2030" development strategy. He also highlighted the role of the China-Comoros friendship, China-Arab States Cooperation Forum and the Forum on China-Africa Cooperation, in giving more impetus to the development and revitalization of the Comoros. Azali spoke highly of the major initiative on cooperation with Africa announced by Chinese President Xi Jinping and thanked China for supporting African countries in safeguarding their legitimate rights and interests at the UN. Comoros is willing to continue to strengthen communication and coordination with China on multilateral affairs and regional cooperation, he said. Wang also held talks with Comoran Foreign Minister Dhoihir Dhoulkamal on the same day. Noting that China was the first country to recognize Comoros' independence and establish diplomatic ties with it, Wang said he hopes the visit will deepen mutually beneficial cooperation between the two countries in various fields and inject new impetus into the sound and steady development of bilateral relations. The two sides should make better use of the economic and social benefits of the completed projects, actively explore new projects which can improve people's livelihoods, and carry out cooperation in areas where Comoros has strengths, such as spice processing and fishery, he said. China welcomes Comoros to use the "green channel" for African agricultural products and the zero-tariff policy for products from the least-developed countries, and to promote more quality products from Comoros to enter the Chinese market, he added. Dhoulkamal thanked China for its help and support for Comoros' development and is ready to work with China to push bilateral cooperation in all areas to a new level. Comoros is ready to work with China to strengthen solidarity between Africa and China, and jointly respond to global challenges such as the pandemic and climate change for common development, he said. (Cover: Comoran President Azali Assoumani (R) meets with visiting Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Moroni, capital of Comoros, January 4, 2022. /CMG)