As one of the most thrilling, demanding and grueling races on the planet, the Dakar Rally is not for the fainthearted.  The extreme danger associated with the annual showpiece event comes from the unpredictable terrain and the challenge of going through a range of changing climates.  But for the racers, some of whom travel from across the world to test their resolve and perseverance in Saudi Arabia's formidable 8,375-kilometer-long, two-week rally, nothing can beat the nonstop adrenaline rush. "As a driver, I'd been longing to challenge myself in the Dakar race for over a decade. The rally is harder than you imagine," said Zhang Guoyu, the Chinese driver of BJ40. Zhang made his Dakar debut last year and concluded his brilliant campaign with a respectable 14th place alongside compatriot Sha He. This time around, he hopes to go one step further with his new partner Pan Hongyu, who will participate in his fourth Dakar race. "This year, we want to try something new. I have never driven with Pan before, although we've been teammates for many years. But I'm very glad the team has made this decision," Zhang said.  "Pan has three years' of Dakar experience, and hopefully, with his help, we can improve. Our goal for 2022 is to beat last year's result; I am very confident about driving with him." Qatari Nasser Al-Attiyah won the first special of the Dakar Rally on Sunday to extend his race lead after victory in the prologue. The 51-year-old, looking to win the race for the fourth time, finished the first phase 12 minutes and seven seconds quicker than nine-time world rally champion Sebastien Loeb in second place. The 333-kilometer loop around northern Saudi Arabia saw several competitors experience navigational difficulties, resulting in large time gaps. Fourteen-time Dakar winner Stephane Peterhansel lost a lot of time after a puncture to his Audi. Australian Daniel Sanders extended his early lead in the bikes category, beating Chilean Pablo Quintanilla by three minutes and seven seconds(With input from agencies)