Xi Jinping, general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, on Tuesday called for efforts to deepen the review, study, education and promotion of the CPC's history so as to better understand and make good use of the historical experience of the Party over the past century. Xi, also Chinese president and chairman of the Central Military Commission, made the remarks when addressing the opening of a study session at the Party School of the CPC Central Committee attended by provincial and ministerial-level officials. The study session aimed to advance the learning and understanding of the resolution adopted at the sixth plenary session of the 19th CPC Central Committee, Xi noted. He urged efforts to champion the great founding spirit of the Party, boost historical confidence, promote unity and solidarity, enhance fighting spirit, and motivate the whole Party as well as Chinese people of all ethnic groups to work tirelessly to realize the Second Centenary Goal. Xi attributed the success of the Party as well as socialism with Chinese characteristics to the guidance of Marxism. He urged officials to cultivate an in-depth understanding of the theory and learn to update the theory so as to keep pace with the times. According to Xi, the key for Marxism to play its role lies in whether the theory can be applied to the practical situation in China. He called for theoretical innovation in order to keep pace with China's rapid development. Learning from the Party's centurial history, Xi stressed that whether the Party and its people are on the right track depends on their understanding of the principal contradiction of the society. To realize a significant improvement of the economic and social development, we need to solve the principal contradiction and the principal aspect of the contradiction, the Chinese president said. Xi highlighted the strategic issue as the fundamental issue of a party and a country. He hopes officials can learn from the history and make correct decisions by thinking from a long-term perspective. The opening ceremony was presided over by Li Keqiang, and attended by Li Zhanshu, Wang Yang, Wang Huning, Zhao Leji and Han Zheng, all members of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the CPC Central Committee. Vice President Wang Qishan also attended the event. (With input from Xinhua)