The highly anticipated spectacular for the Chinese New Year, the 2022 Spring Festival Gala, began broadcasting live from the No. 1 Studio in China Media Group's (CMG) headquarters on Fuxing Road in Beijing, at 8:00 p.m. Beijing time on Monday. The 2022 CMG Spring Festival Gala is here! Click here to view CGTN's special coverage of performances. Sa Beining, Neghmet Raxman, Ren Luyu, Li Sisi and Ma Fanshu hosted the grand event. The Spring Festival Gala is a symbolic part of the national celebrations, and has been a must-watch program for Chinese people all over the world since it was first held in 1983. The five-hour-long extravaganza features songs and a multitude of performances aimed at entertaining millions of Chinese families at New Year. This year's Spring Festival Gala featured major themes such as the centenary of the founding of the Communist Party of China (CPC), rural revitalization, ecological civilization, the Winter Olympic Games and China's space achievements. A number of integrated and innovative programs were particularly eye-catching in this year's Spring Festival Gala. First of all, the actors brought wonderful musical skits to the audience in a program presented by the China Puppet Art Theater and the Guangdong Puppet Art Theater, with singers including Sha Baoliang and Wang Li. Surprisingly, in this short puppet play with the theme of man and nature, we can see the figures of elephants that have frequently appeared on hot searches this year, reminiscent of the recent elephant migration story. The dance drama also vividly shows the migratory route of elephants and people's concern for the whereabouts of the animals as well as the harmonious relationship between man and nature. The poetic dance, "The Painting Journey – The Legend of a Panorama of Mountains and Rivers," highlights the aesthetics of traditional Chinese painting, is the latest creation by Han Zhen and Zhou Liya, the joint directors and choreographers of the popular dance drama "The Eternal Wave." Unlike Han and Zhou's previous works, "The Painting Journey," doesn't have a strong storyline, but showcases Chinese traditional culture in a poetic and respectful way. The painting, "A Panorama of Rivers and Mountains," is the only extant work by Song Dynasty (960-1279) painter Wang Ximeng (1096-1119) who created it at the age of 17. The 900-year-old masterpiece is stunning in its sweeping scale, rich coloration and the expressive minute details. On a single piece of silk, mountain formations and groupings of infinite variety rise and fall between a cloudless sky and rippling waters, extending as far as the eye can see in all directions. The painting is a representative of "blue-green landscape." Azurite blue and malachite green dominate, with touches of pale brown. Han and Zhou had thorough communication with experts and researchers at Beijing's Palace Museum when choreographing the work. One researcher even inspired them to set a character as a guide in the dance. When unfolding the painting inch by inch, the researcher travels back in time to watch the process the ancient painter used to painstakingly create the work, decoding the secrets behind its inherent uniqueness. Audiences follow the researcher to explore the legendary world of traditional Chinese art. Then, a wonderful tai chi performance brought the audience the enjoyment of flowing water. Tai chi is an ancient Chinese tradition that, today, is practiced as a graceful form of exercise. It involves a series of movements performed in a slow, focused manner and accompanied by deep breathing. The show used video to combine tai chi performances with China's urban landscape, providing viewers with an immersive visual experience combining modernity and tradition. Sanxingdui's newly unearthed bronze mask were also unveiled at the gala. The mask, unearthed from the No. 3 pit in Sanxingdui, is the largest mask in the world. After the on-site release ceremony of Sanxingdui cultural relics, the audience welcomed a creative dance themed on Sanxingdui's typical relics – the gold mask. The show was highly creative, with actors using body language to vividly depict the magnificent scene of Sanxingdui. Also, the show used video and light and shadow technology to lead the audience to experience the original image of Sanxingdui in an immersive way. With the 2022 Beijing Winter Olympics just around the corner, elements of the Games were a highlight of this year's Spring Festival Gala. In this program, Bing Dwen Dwen and Xue Rong Rong, the mascots of the Beijing Winter Olympic and Paralympic Games, explored the magnificence of the venues in the classic skating Waltz song. A lyrical song "Light up the Dream" sings the atmosphere and reunion of Chinese New Year and the Winter Olympics' faster strong and together, people's joy and expectation. Nineteen foreign hosts from CGTN also joined in the chorus to send blessings to the Beijing Winter Olympics. Finally, the creative music and dance program also used immersive technology to guide the audience to appreciate the soft and beautiful style of southern China. This year's gala used AR+XR technology for the first time. A giant 720-degree curved LED screen was one of the highlights, connecting the stage with the auditorium, and constituting a highly extensible three-dimensional space. In addition, extended reality (XR), augmented reality (AR), holographic scanning and 8K naked-eye 3D rendering technology were adopted to create a more immersive viewing experience. Many wonderful programs depended on this electronic screen. At this point, the 2022 Spring Festival Gala is drawing to a close. If you want to relive the highlights of the gala and the Spring Festival special coverage, you can also click here. (Head image designed by Xin Cheng)