The Cincinnati Bengals defeated the Tennessee Titans 19-16 in the NFL American Football Conference (AFC) Divisional round game at Nissan Stadium on Saturday, becoming the first team to secure a spot in the AFC Championship Game. Tied at 16 with under a minute to play, the game appeared destined for overtime until Bengals linebacker Logan Wilson intercepted a pass from Titans quarterback (QB) Ryan Tannehill at 0:22. In the ensuing drive, Bengals QB Joe Burrow found Ja'Marr Chase on 19-yard pass. After two running plays to inch closer to field goal position, Bengals rookie kicker Evan McPherson nailed the 52-yard, game-winning field goal to seal the deal. "He [McPherson] gave a little warmup swing and he said, 'Ahh, looks like we're going to the AFC championship," Burrow said after the game. Burrow completed 28 of 37 passes for 348 yards, no touchdowns (TD) and one interception. He was sacked nine times, which resulted in 68 lost yards. However, Burrow's performance in their last drive was good enough to lead to victory for the Bengals and that's what mattered the most. The team ended their 31-year playoff win drought last weekend and now they're going to compete for a spot in the Super Bowl. "I'm tired of the underdog narrative," Burrow said. "We're a really, really good team. We're here to make noise." "This is the expectation for this team," Bengals head coach Zac Taylor said. "This is not too big for these guys. I know we haven't been here before, but it sure feels like we have. You just see the attitude of this team and the confidence of this team that we're going to find a way to win." The Bengals will face the winner of Sunday's Kansas City Chiefs-Buffalo Bills game in the AFC Championship on January 30. Tannehill completed 15-of-24 passes for 220 yards, one TD and three interceptions. Titans running back Derrick Henry managed to return from injury to rush for 62 yards and one TD. "I'm disappointed for them [Titans players] because I think they all believed that we would win the game," Titans head coach Mike Vrabel said. "They believed that we were just getting started. This was a second season. The preparation and everything that we put into it was there. But the execution wasn't. It's disappointing and I'll always hurt more for them than I will for myself." No TDs for Garoppolo, but 49ers reach NFC Championship Game The San Francisco 49ers defeated the Green Bay Packers 13-10 in the National Football Conference (NFC) Divisional round game at Lambeau Field on Saturday, returning to the NFC Championship Game after two years. 49ers QB Jimmy Garoppolo completed 11-of-19 passes for 131 yards and, again, no TDs – just like last weekend's wild-card win over the Dallas Cowboys. All scores came on special teams, including two field goals and one extra point by kicker Robbie Gould, and one TD by safety Talanoa Hufanga. The biggest turning point in this game happened between the two field goals made by Gould. First Arik Armstead tackled Aaron Rodgers, forcing the Packers to punt from their own 12-yard line. Then Jordan Willis blocked Corey Bojorquez's punt before the ball was picked up by Hufanga, who then scored the game-tying TD (10-10). The Packers went scoreless in their last drive. The 49ers exploited every second of the following three minutes and 20 seconds. When Gould scored that 45-yard field goal, he made sure that not even a single second was left for the opponents to have a chance at the endzone. "We find ways, whether it's running, passing, defense stepping up big, special teams today," Garoppolo said. "That's what makes a good football team. That's what we are." "We thought our special teams had an advantage in this game," 49ers head coach Kyle Shanahan said. "We thought they had an opportunity to possibly win us the game. To be able to say that and to actually come to fruition and those guys pulled it off was huge for those guys and huge for our team." The 49ers will meet the winner of the Tampa Bay Buccaneers-Los Angeles Rams game in the NFC Championship on January 30. The Packers scored early as running back AJ Dillon rushed for one TD in their first drive. However, they didn't score again until Mason Crosby made a field goal in the fourth quarter. Rodgers completed 20-of-29 passes for 225 yards and no TDs in Saturday's game. He averaged only 4.8 passing yards per attempt, the second-lowest in all the lost games of his postseason career. He has played against the 49ers four times in the playoffs and he lost all of them. Will this be Rodgers' last game at Lambeau Field?