Chinese President Xi Jinping has sent a congratulatory letter to the China Media Group (CMG) Forum, which opened on January 26 in Beijing. With the Beijing Winter Olympics just around the corner, Xi wrote that China will deliver a streamlined, safe and splendid Winter Olympics for the world. The president's congratulatory letter was warmly received by CMG staff. "As the president pointed out, we will not only host a successful Winter Olympics but also make it splendid and unique," said Ma Yong, deputy director of CMG's Chinese Global Program Center. "It is the first global comprehensive sports event to be held as scheduled since the outbreak of COVID-19. It is a successful practice of the new Olympic motto of 'Faster, Higher, Stronger – Together.' We should fully report the Chinese story of this successful practice and present a confident and strong image of China," said Liu Xin, an anchor with CMG's China Global Television Network (CGTN). "We will use advanced means of integrated communication of new media technologies to highlight the features of science, technology, wisdom, green nature and frugality of the Beijing Winter Olympic Games, show China's strength, share China's wisdom and contribute China's solutions," said Gong Ming, director of the commentary and features department of CMG's new media center for news. "As the international mainstream media and Olympic rights broadcaster, we will continue to provide quality news reports and various media products with the Beijing Winter Olympics as the starting point, so that more and more Chinese people will fall in love with ice and snow sports and participate in them," said Luo Hongtao, CMG's sports and youth program center reporter. "Through the CMG Forum, we will deepen exchanges and cooperation with international media, help show the unique charm of ice and snow sports, carry forward the Olympic spirit, and jointly promote the development of Olympic Winter sports," said Wang Feng, a reporter with CMG's Beijing station. "We must take the Beijing Winter Olympics as an opportunity to help strengthen sports exchanges between China and other countries and regions, and make our due contribution to promoting the integration of eastern and western civilizations and present a good image of China," said Qiu Tianshu, deputy director of the international cooperation department of CMG's international exchange bureau. "Now the Main Media Center has entered the 24-hour operation mode, and media from all over the world are arriving one after another. In accordance with the Chinese president's requirement of simplicity, safety and splendor, we will serve media friends from all over the world well, tell the story of the Winter Olympics well, spread the Olympic spirit well, and shine the light of hope with the flame of the Olympic Games," said Zhao Weidong, a spokesperson for the Beijing Winter Olympics Organizing Committee.