China is ready to work with Belarus to take the 30th anniversary of diplomatic ties between the two countries as a new starting point to enhance political mutual trust, deepen mutually beneficial cooperation and push for new results in the China-Belarus comprehensive strategic partnership, Chinese President Xi Jinping said on Monday. Xi made the remarks in a phone conversation with Belarusian President Alexander Lukashenko, noting that China-Belarus relations have achieved fruitful results in the past 30 years. "The two sides have established a comprehensive strategic partnership on the basis of mutual trust and mutual benefit. With the concerted efforts from both sides, the Belt and Road Initiative cooperation has steadily progressed, and the bilateral trade volume between the two nations has increased by 50 times during the past 30 years," Xi said. The two sides should expand the scale of trade and investment, enhance cooperation in various fields, such as green development and digital economy, and ensure the sustainable development of the China-Europe Railway Express, Xi urged, adding that cooperation should be strengthened in the research and development of COVID-19 vaccines. Given the complex and evolving international and regional situation, Xi emphasized that China and Belarus have effectively cooperated in multilateral occasions and firmly supported each other on issues concerning the core interests of the two countries, which reflects the strategic value of the cooperation. "Under the new circumstances, the two sides should maintain close strategic communication and practice genuine multilateralism, uphold the international system with the United Nations at its core and an international order based on international law, and uphold international fairness and justice," Xi said. China stands against external forces' interference in Belarus' internal affairs and supports Belarus in pursuing a development path that fits its national conditions, Xi added. "We should uphold the common values of humanity, guide the international community to establish a correct view of democracy and help implement the UN 2030 Sustainable Development Agenda." Lukashenko congratulated China again on the 100th anniversary of the Communist Party of China, and expressed Belarus' thanks to China for its political and moral support. "Belarus hopes to maintain close contact and coordination with China, and is willing to take this year's 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between Belarus and China as an opportunity to bring bilateral relations to a new level. Belarus will always be China's close friend and partner," Lukashenko added.