President Xi Jinping extended Spring Festival greetings to all Chinese people during his visit to north China's Shanxi Province from Wednesday to Thursday. Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, wished Chinese people of all ethnic groups, compatriots in Hong Kong, Macao and Taiwan, and overseas Chinese healthier and happier lives in the Year of the Tiger, and the motherland prosperity and strength. This year's Spring Festival falls on February 1. Xi, as the Party's top leader, has for 10 consecutive years visited people at the grassroots level, especially those from disadvantaged groups, ahead of the Spring Festival, the most important holiday in the Chinese calendar and an occasion for family reunions. On Thursday morning, Xi went to the Ancient City of Ping Yao, a well-preserved example of a traditional Chinese city dating back to the 14th century, and stressed the importance of protecting historical and cultural heritage and developing tourism. He also visited a local energy company and learned about efforts to promote clean energy and the efficient use of coal, where he stressed the need to optimize low-carbon technologies and upgrade traditional industries. On Wednesday afternoon, Xi inspected a public service center in Duancun Village of Fenxi County, and underlined the importance of modernizing agriculture and rural areas amid China's endeavor to build a modern socialist country in an all-round manner. Noting that there is still a long way to go before attaining the goal of modern socialist China, he urged efforts to consolidate the achievements of poverty eradication and advance rural vitalization, and to modernize rural life. Also on Wednesday, the Chinese president went to Fengnanyuan Village of Huozhou City and visited the disaster-affected people to learn about local reconstruction. "I came to Shanxi today primarily out of the concern for people whose work and lives were affected by last year's disaster," Xi told the villagers there. "I am glad to observe that despite the severity of the disaster, you did a good job in reconstruction and replanting crops with the help of the Party and government," Xi said. "I feel assured." (With input from Xinhua)