The Oklahoma City Thunder lost to the Dallas Mavericks 95-86 at Paycom Center on Sunday, failing to win back-to-back games. Despite the loss, the Thunder saw their first-year guard Josh Giddey drop a triple-double of 17 points, 13 rebounds and 14 assists. Having done this at the age of 19 years and 84 days old, Giddey surpassed LaMelo Ball to become the youngest player in NBA history to record a triple-double. "It's cool, as I said earlier in the year. The individual stats are good, you enjoy it for the night," Giddey said. "But a win is always better than individual stats. If I have zero-zero-zero and we win, it's always better than if I have a triple-double and lose." As the sixth-overall selection in the 2021 NBA Draft, Giddey was described as an oversized orchestrator who has great court vision and solid defensive skills in his scouting reports. He had four steals in Sunday's game and didn't seem outmatched in most one-on-one defensive possessions. Giddey's isolation offense has prevented him from getting better at this stage in his career. His 3-5 shooting performance at the 3-point line on Sunday night seemed more surprising than sustainable since he's averaged just under one triple (0.9) at only 24.5 percent per game this season. He was only 4-11 within the 3-point line and shot a more disappointing 2-7 around the rim. Giddey must work on his finishing ability moving forward, as a lack of individual offense often limits the growth of young ball handlers. On the Mavericks' side, Luka Doncic returned after sitting out 10 games due to injury and COVID-19. He played over 31 minutes, longer than anyone else on his team, and was one rebound shy of a triple-double after putting down 14 points, nine rebounds and 10 assists. His jump shooting (4-12) and coordination with teammates (seven turnovers) still need improvement. James' record ends, but Lakers win, despite Westbrook's 9 turnovers The Los Angeles Lakers beat the Minnesota Timberwolves 108-103 at Crypto.com Arena on Sunday for their second win in a row. LeBron James continued to start as the purple and gold's center. Though he failed to extend his 30+ point scoring streak to eight games, he was the team's top performer with 26 points, seven rebounds, five assists and three steals. The victory did not come easy for the Lakers as 37-year-old James played almost 40 minutes and had to keep charging the rim to earn 12 free throws. Malik Monk, Avery Bradley and Carmelo Anthony all made positive contributions as well, shooting a collective 9-20 from beyond the arc. Bradley and Stanley Johnson had four and three steals, respectively, and gave Anthony Edwards a hard time on the perimeter. By contrast, Russell Westbrook's role was more complicated in Sunday's game. Part of his performance was great, including drawing eight free throws, shooting 2-3 in the mid-range and 5-8 in the paint. However, Westbrook's nine turnovers were simply too ugly to ignore, especially when he only delivered five assists. Some of his turnovers were not bold passes that failed to find teammates. From time to time, Westbrook was just too careless with the ball and watching the opponents take the ball from his hands for easy dunks. Westbrook has committed at least one turnover in 406 straight games, the longest streak in NBA history. He has been leading the league in this area so far this season as well, with 4.8 turnovers per game. The Timberwolves lacked Karl-Anthony Towns and D'Angelo Russell on Sunday night, but that didn't mean they couldn't cause trouble for the Lakers. On the contrary, the young men of the away team reaped 20 offensive rebounds from the purple and gold and turned them into 20 second-chance points. Naz Reid, who played less than 17 minutes per game this season, scored a season-high 23 points for the Timberwolves by going 9-12 under the rim. It took the Lakers three quarters to realize they should switch in screen plays to limit Reid. "We're not here solely just to develop talent," Timberwolves head coach Chris Finch said. "We're trying to win these games." His team is ninth in the Western Conference with a 16-20 record and two games away from the playoff qualification zone. Other games on Sunday (away teams come first): New York Knicks 105-120 Toronto Raptors Indiana Pacers 104-108 Cleveland Cavaliers Miami Heat 113-115 Sacramento Kings Phoenix Suns 133-99 Charlotte Hornets