World leaders have sent their Lunar New Year greetings as China celebrates the Year of the Tiger, which will officially ring in on Tuesday. Serbian Prime Minister Ana Brnabic wished China and the Chinese people a lot of success and good health in her greetings via CMG. She said Serbia is also celebrating the Lunar New Year to show how much they appreciate their "iron friendship" with China. "I stay firm that our friendship and partnership will be even stronger in the years to come." She also voiced her confidence in Beijing presenting a "fantastic" Winter Olympics, which will officially kick off on Friday. Cambodian Prime Minister Samdech Techo Hun Sen on Monday sent best wishes for the Chinese New Year, saying that the festival has gained popularity in the Southeast Asian nation. In a recent message to Pung Kheav Se, president of the Federation of Khmer-Chinese in Cambodia, Hun Sen said Chinese and Cambodians of Chinese descent have always shared weal and woe with the Cambodian people since ancient times. He said they have greatly contributed to the socio-economic development in Cambodia even during the time of the COVID-19 pandemic. "I would like to wish all brothers and sisters happiness and brighter success in your businesses and endeavors," he said. In a Lunar New Year message, Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida sent his best wishes to the Chinese community living and working in Japan as well as everyone celebrating the festival. He wished the Year of the Tiger to be a marvelous year filled with great vitality and growth. In a message addressed to Costa Rica Overseas Chinese Association, President Carlos Alvarado, on behalf of the Costa Rican government and in his own name, wished prosperity, health and peace to the Chinese community in the Central American country. He also congratulated the Chinese people on their great achievements over the past year. Read more: UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres sends New Year wishes to China (With input from Xinhua) (Cover: A market selling Spring Festival decorations in Shanghai, China. /CFP)