The Kremlin said on Monday that London's threats to introduce sanctions against Russian companies and business people linked to President Vladimir Putin were alarming and such actions would backfire by hurting British companies. The British government stated on Monday it would sanction businesses and people with the closest links to Putin if Russia takes any action against Ukraine. Meanwhile, Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov mentioned the threat was an attack on Russian businesses, undermined Britain's investment climate and inflamed tensions in Europe. Russia will respond to any such action in a way that would be based on its interests, Peskov told a briefing. Moscow said in many occasions that there was no aggressive intention and that it needs to ensure its security in response to NATO threats, in face of Western claim that it intends to invade Ukraine. On Monday, Ukraine's Foreign Minister Dmytro Kuleba welcomed Britain's warning of sanctions against Russia if it invades. "We urge partners to take such actions as they are an important factor in deterring the Russian elite from rash decisions," Kuleba told a televised briefing. U.S. media on Monday also reported the Biden administration is preparing sanctions against executives of Russian state-owned companies and high-ranking officials if Russia invades Ukraine, and these restrictions may also affect their wives and children. U.S. President Joe Biden last week said he would consider sanctioning Russian President Vladimir Putin himself if Russia invaded. Peskov on Monday said Washington and its European allies should give up their policy of whipping up tension around Ukraine and assume a constructive stance. "Regrettably, American media outlets have been publishing a large amount of unverified, distorted and deliberately false and inflammatory information in recent months about what is happening in and around Ukraine. This is becoming obvious actually for all," Peskov said, adding that these publications should be treated "correspondingly." On January 28, Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelensky also called on the West not to create panic with its "Russian invasion" claim and said he did not see a greater threat now. (With input from agencies)