Chinese President Xi Jinping on Tuesday hailed the development of China-Vietnam relations in his congratulatory message to Vietnamese leaders on the 72nd anniversary of diplomatic ties between the two countries. Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, sent congratulations to General Secretary of the Communist Party of Vietnam Central Committee Nguyen Phu Trong and Vietnamese President Nguyen Xuan Phuc to celebrate the anniversary. China and Vietnam have conducted frequent exchanges at different levels and cooperated smoothly in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic and on economic recovery and development, bringing tangible benefits to the two peoples, Xi said. Noting that China and Vietnam are socialist neighbors, he hailed the two countries as a community with a shared future that bears strategic significance. Facing the complicated and combined impacts of global changes and a pandemic both unseen in a century, China and Vietnam should commit to the socialist road that suits their own national realities, and stick to the direction of friendly cooperation, said Xi. "That serves the shared strategic interests of both sides, and helps advance regional and global peace and development." Xi added that he attached great importance to the development of China-Vietnam relations, and stands ready to work with the two leaders to steer relations between the two parties and the two countries toward sustained and steady progress. On the same day, Chinese Premier Li Keqiang also sent a congratulatory message to Vietnamese Prime Minister Pham Minh Chinh. Li applauded the progress in the bilateral relations over the past year, and said the Chinese side is ready to work with the Vietnamese side to consolidate political trust, seek cooperation in different fields and continuously enrich the China-Vietnam comprehensive strategic cooperative partnership. Chairman of the National People's Congress Standing Committee Li Zhanshu and Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi also sent congratulatory messages to their Vietnamese counterparts. Read more: China ready to jointly promote RCEP implementation with Vietnam