Teams across the world recently released the number of their athletes that will compete at the Beijing 2022 Olympic Games, which will take place from February 4 to 20. Here is a review of some of the teams' Olympians. Team USA The United States will send 222 athletes to the Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games, the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Committee announced on Monday. Team USA features 92 returning Olympians, including four five-time Olympians. They are Shaun White in halfpipe snowboarding, Lindsey Jacobellis in snowboard cross, Katie Uhlaender in skeleton and John Shuster in curling. Also, eight members of Team USA will compete at their fourth Olympic Winter Games. The roster of 222 athletes, including 115 men and 107 women, is the second-largest U.S. contingent ever at the Olympic Winter Games, behind the 228-member team at PyeongChang 2018 and equaling the 222 named to the Sochi 2014 team. The 107 women in 2022 will be the largest ever female contingent for Team USA at an Olympic Winter Games. Team Sweden Sweden will send 116 athletes – their largest Winter Olympics squad ever – to the Beijing Winter Olympics as the last names were announced on Monday. "We have a large and strong squad and our goal is to make it Sweden's best winter Olympics of all times," Peter Reinebo, CEO of the Swedish Olympic Committee, said in a press release. The squad has a good chance to improve the medal tally from PyeongChang where seven of the 14 medals Sweden won were gold, Reinebo said. Among the greatest Swedish hopes are ski cross skier Sandra Naeslund, skater Nils van der Poel, biathlon sisters Hanna and Elvira Oberg, and freestyle skier Henrik Harlaut. Team Poland The Polish Olympic Committee unveiled on Monday the list of 57 athletes who will compete at the Beijing 2022 Olympic Winter Games. The team includes 30 women and 27 men. For the first time in the history of Polish sport, more women than men will go to the Winter Games. Team Hong Kong SAR, China China's Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR) will send three athletes to the 2022 Beijing Olympic Winter Games, the Sports Federation and Olympic Committee of Hong Kong SAR said on Monday. This will be the sixth consecutive time that China's Hong Kong SAR has participated in the Olympic Winter Games, first doing so in 2002. Sidney K Chu will compete in the 500 meters short track speed skating while Audrey King and Adrian Yung Hau-tsuen will race in Alpine skiing. Team Kyrgyzstan Maxim Gordeyev is the only Olympian who will ski for Kyrgyzstan at Beijing 2022, according to the country's National Olympic Committee. Gordeyev has competed in three world championships, two winter Universiades and many other events of the International Ski Federation. In addition to Gordeyev and his trainer Igor Borisov, the sports delegation of Kyrgyzstan at the Olympics will include chef de mission Cholpon Zhumagazieva. (With input from Xinhua)