Mohamed Salah scored the decisive spot-kick as record seven-time champions Egypt beat Cote d'Ivoire 5-4 on penalties after a 0-0 draw in Douala on Wednesday to reach the Africa Cup of Nations quarterfinals. The Liverpool star smashed home his penalty with Cote d'Ivoire's Eric Bailly the only player to fail from the spot, and Egypt go on to play Morocco in the last eight in Yaounde on Sunday. It was a tense last-16 tie which for long spells resembled a battle of attrition on a poor pitch at the Japoma Stadium in Cameroon's economic capital, and it looked for much of the game as though Egypt would pay for their poor finishing. However, Carlos Queiroz's team are now through to the last eight despite having scored just two goals in their four matches in Cameroon so far. "Considering the number of opportunities we had I feel we deserved to win," said Queiroz, who said he is thriving under intense pressure despite criticism of the Portuguese coach in Egypt. "It is part of the package. Professional players and coaches can't live without pressure. It is a source of inspiration." Meanwhile, two-time champions Cote d'Ivoire are out, once again defeated by an Egyptian side who have long held the upper hand in meetings between the continental heavyweights. This was their 11th AFCON encounter and still Egypt have lost just once to the Elephants. Elsewhere, Santiago Eneme scored the decisive penalty as minnows Equatorial Guinea edged Mali 6-5 in a shootout after a drab 0-0 draw following extra time in Limbe to reach the quarterfinals. After France-based Eneme converted, Malian Falaye Sacko had a kick saved by Jesus Owono and his country bowed out in the first knockout stage for the second successive Cup of Nations. An ultra-cagey last-16 match produced minimal excitement for the crowd with both teams managing just one shot on target in 120 minutes. Equatorial Guinea now face Sadio Mane-inspired Senegal, one of the title favorites, in Yaounde on Sunday for a place in the semifinals of the flagship African tournament. While Senegal will be hot favorites to advance, Equatorial Guinea beat them in the only previous Cup of Nations clash 10 years ago. Ranked 114th in the world, the Equatoguineans have impressed throughout the tournament in their first appearance after qualifying, having previously competed as co-hosts and hosts. Unlucky losers to Cote d'Ivoire, the National Thunder then ended the 35-match unbeaten run of Algeria before defeating Sierra Leone to finish group runners-up.