During a two-day visit to north China's Shanxi Province, Chinese President Xi Jinping toured the ancient town of Pingyao in Jinzhong City on Thursday. Pingyao is one of the best-preserved ancient walled cities in China and a UNESCO world heritage site dating back more than 2,000 years. The ancient town is among many cultural heritage sites that China has been striving to protect. So, what is the importance of preserving these "old things"? President Xi gave the answer during his visit there. He said that historical and cultural heritage sites uncover the history of the Chinese nation, and they not only belong to our generation but also the future generations. He called for comprehensive protection of historical and cultural heritage sites and encouraged the promotion of traditional Chinese culture to the world. The Pingyao Ancient City was once a renowned finance center during the Ming (1368-1644) and Qing (1644-1912) dynasties, which were the heyday of Jinshang, or the Shanxi merchants, who were very good at doing business. President Xi walked into the Rishengchang Piaohao, one of the earliest banks in China that opened during the Qing Dynasty. Now it has been turned into a museum promoting the Jinshang culture and spirit. In the bank museum, President Xi reiterated unshakable cultural confidence. He encouraged further exploring the Jinshang culture and using it to serve today's economic and social development and people's high-quality life. With the Chinese Lunar New Year just a few days away, the ancient town has taken on a festive look. President Xi examined the beautiful hand-made lacquerware and the tasty Pingyao beef and Shanxi aged vinegar. He didn't forget to buy some beef and aged vinegar to take home for Spring Festival. Dong Haifang, a staff member of a Pingyao beef store, met President Xi on Thursday and introduced their products to him. She said she was "very excited" to meet Xi. "We'll continue to inherit and promote traditional cooking, raise our product quality and develop new categories to contribute our part to economic development," she added. Zhang Qingfeng runs a store selling aged vinegar. President Xi also walked into his store. "We were surprised to see President Xi and we all felt very excited. He acknowledged our work and the vinegar industry. That has enhanced our confidence to stick to the business," he said. Spring Festival is the most important occasion for family reunions in China. Since the 18th CPC National Congress, President Xi has made it an annual routine to visit grassroots residents ahead of the festival to see how they're spending their holiday and listen to their concerns for the new year. President Xi wished residents in Pingyao a happy and vigorous Year of the Tiger. Known for its coal industry, Shanxi is a vital energy base in China. Facing an energy crunch, many coal mines in Shanxi have been operating at full capacity. Last year, Shanxi's annual output of coal ranked first in the country, reaching more than one billion tons. When President Xi visited a local energy company, he acknowledged Shanxi's contribution to the country's development and stressed the importance of coal supply. But he also emphasized on developing clean and high-efficient use of coal. He urged energy companies to seek for green and low carbon technological breakthroughs, upgrade industry structures and push forward the objectives of peak carbon emissions and carbon neutrality. When it comes to people's livelihood, what President Xi is most concerned about is whether residents can keep warm during the winter. This was an issue that Xi has brought up many times in the past. During the inspection, he also urged large energy companies, especially the state-owned ones, to take the lead in ensuring supply and stable prices to provide a warm winter for everyone.