An academic symposium titled "Spiritual Dialogue between Chinese and Ancient Greek Civilizations" was held in Beijing on Saturday, nearly a month before the the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympic Games. Under the theme "Civilization, Peace and Friendship," the symposium held at Beijing Sport University highlighted spiritual dialogue and unity while marking the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Greece. A letter from Greek President Katerina Sakellaropoulou was unveiled at the symposium, which was jointly organized by the Department of Literature and History at the Chinese Academy of Governance, the Center for Classical Civilization at Renmin University of China, Beijing Sport University and Civilization Magazine. "Every effort to support, disseminate and develop the Olympic Values is not only praiseworthy but also crucial," Sakellaropoulou wrote in the letter issued on October 29, 2021, which also served as the preface for "The Olympic Manifesto – The Beautiful Olympic Culture Scroll III," released in November last year. "Today, the world is experiencing unprecedented challenges and crises that can only be tackled through concerted action and international cooperation," read the letter. The Greek president noted in her letter that the restoration of the ancient Greek Olympic Truce Agreement demonstrates the will to send a message of peace to the world through the Olympics. The 76th session of the United Nations General Assembly in New York on December 2, 2021, adopted the Beijing Winter Olympic Truce Resolution drafted by China and the International Olympic Committee. The resolution, titled "Building a peaceful and better world through sport and the Olympic ideal," was adopted by consensus and co-sponsored by 173 member states agreeing on the settlement of conflicts through peaceful and diplomatic means. It calls for observing the tradition of the Olympic Truce, from seven days before the Beijing 2022 Olympics begin on February 4 until seven days after the Beijing Paralympic Games end on March 13. "The truce resolution is to maintain the ancient traditions of Western civilization, and the refusal of individual countries to sign this agreement is a departure from this tradition and the humanistic values ​​of Olympic Peace and Friendship," Professor Qin Lu, from the Department of Literature and History at the Chinese Academy of Governance, said at the symposium.