Jurgen Klopp saluted "world-class" Diogo Jota after the Portugal forward fired Liverpool into the League Cup final against Chelsea with a double in Thursday's 2-0 win at Arsenal. Jota put Liverpool on course for Wembley with a first half strike and he clinched their berth with a late second goal in the semi-final second leg. Klopp's side will face Chelsea in the final on February 27. Jota's 13th and 14th club goals this season underlined his value at a time when Liverpool are without Mohamed Salah and Sadio Mane due to the African Cup of Nations. The Reds, who last lifted the League Cup in 2012, are back in the final for the first time since 2016 as they aim to win the competition for a record ninth time. It will be Klopp's fifth cup final with Liverpool since he took charge in 2015. Elsewhere, Barcelona were dumped out of the Copa del Rey as Ferran Torres' first goal for the club failed to prevent a dramatic 3-2 defeat after extra-time by Athletic Bilbao. Disappointment for Barca was compounded by the sight of a visibly upset Ansu Fati going off injured in the second half of normal time at San Mames. Fati only returned earlier this month after two months out with a hamstring problem, having also come back in September following 10 months out with a knee injury. Another spell on the sidelines for Fati would be a huge blow to Barca's hopes of making La Liga's top four. Pedri also asked to go off in extra-time. Real Madrid needed an extra 30 minutes as well to defeat Elche 2-1, with Eden Hazard scoring the winner after Marcelo's red card forced La Liga's leaders to come from behind with 10 men. Madrid will be firm favorites, particularly after Sevilla crashed out at the hands of Real Betis, who are now perhaps the greatest threat to Carlo Ancelotti's side winning their first Copa del Rey since 2014, during Ancelotti's first tenure as coach. Barca won the Copa del Rey last season and defending their title was probably their best chance of silverware this term. They are out of sight in La Liga and were beaten by Madrid in last week’s Spanish Super Cup, with the Europa League now their only realistic remaining route to a trophy. Meanwhile, Tammy Abraham put Roma into an Italian Cup quarter-final with Inter Milan, pulling his team out of the mire against second-tier Lecce with the crucial goal and assist in a 3-1 win. The quarter-final ties are scheduled to be played on February 9.