The International Space Station (ISS) is due to have its first orbital maneuver of 2022 on Wednesday night, the Russian space corporation Roscosmos said in a January 1 news release. It said the maneuver would create conditions for the docking of crewed spacecraft Soyuz MS-21 and the landing of Soyuz MS-19, which brought the first all-Russian filmmaking crew to the ISS on October 5, 2021. The ISS will be raised 850 meters this time to an orbit level of 417.73 kilometers. Last month, the ISS was lowered 1.8 km as part of preparations to receive Soyuz MS-21 manned spacecraft on March 18. In order for a spacecraft to dock to a space station, a rendezvous procedure is adopted for the two to have the same orbit. This procedures involves a set of orbital maneuver. "Theoretically speaking, there are launch windows every day," Professor Yang Yuguang from China Aerospace Science and Industry Corporation told CGTN. "But usually when the spacecraft is launched into orbit, the ISS is at a different location." Given that a higher orbit means a lower spacecraft speed, it takes time for the ISS to come to a desirable altitude for docking, therefore, a manned spacecraft is blasted upwards to meet the ISS with minimum maneuvers, Yang explained. A "fast rendezvous and docking technique" has been adopted by most space missions since 2014, according to the European Space Agency. With an average in-cargo travel of around six hours, this technique can reduce space motion sickness that normally kicks in six hours after the astronauts are in orbit. Last year in October, China successfully deployed this technique to send the Shenzhou-13 trio to China's space station – which is 400 kilometers above the Earth – in only six and a half hours. The record for fastest launch, rendezvous and docking in history was set by the Soyuz MS-17 crew in 2020 for a duration of three hours and three minutes. Ten years ago, a similar journey would take three days, NASA astronaut Tracy Caldwell Dyson revealed in 2010. Due to the radiation affect from the Van Allen radiation belt that is 600 km away, a space station is usually set at an altitude of around 300 to 400 km. "This raises another problem," Yang said, as the air density at this level is still relatively high and creates "remarkable" aerodynamic drag. Therefore, "the space station needs to conduct orbital maneuver constantly to keep its orbit, to keep its altitude," said Yang. A space station's orbital maneuver is not that unusual. It is mainly for keeping the station from being de-orbited or dodging debris and satellites, which all require a propulsion system from the station itself or from a cargo spacecraft. Read more: Expert: SpaceX satellites' near collision with Chinese space station could be deliberate tests Space capable nations urged to inform others before orbital maneuvers China urges U.S. to act responsibly in space after SpaceX satellites endanger space station