An article by Chinese President Xi Jinping on making continuous efforts to build a stronger digital economy in China will be published. The article by Xi, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, will be published on Sunday in this year's second issue of the Qiushi Journal, a flagship magazine of the CPC Central Committee. The publication of the article comes days after the release of a government plan on facilitating the development of the digital economy in the 14th Five-Year Plan period (2021-2025). Xi says in the article that the digital economy is becoming a crucial force to reorganize global factor resources, reshape global economic structure and change the global competition pattern. China should give comprehensive consideration of development and security in its efforts to improve the digital economy, he stresses.  Underscoring China's strengths regarding the huge amount of data and abundant application scenarios, he calls for efforts to give full play to these strengths to promote a deep integration of the digital technology with the real economy, empower traditional industries' transformation and upgrading, and nurture new industries and business models. Despite the rapid development and remarkable achievements in recent years, China's digital economy is not strong enough compared with the world's leading powers in the digital economy, he notes.  Meanwhile, some unhealthy and irregular practices and trends have emerged as China's digital economy has grown, he says. These problems not only harm the healthy development of the digital economy, but also break laws and regulations and threaten the country's economic and financial security, he adds, calling for resolute measures to rectify and tackle these issues. Read more: China: From follower to leader in the digital economyChina launches national anti-monopoly bureauChina's antitrust regulator fines Tencent, Alibaba, BilibiliXi calls it a "strategic choice" to develop the digital economy as China taps into opportunities emerging from the new scientific and technological revolution and industrial changes. The healthy development of the digital economy is conducive to fostering a new development paradigm, modernizing the economic system and creating new competitive advantages, he says. China is striving to build a "dual circulation" development pattern, in which domestic and overseas markets reinforce each other, with the domestic market as the mainstay. Xi calls for intensified efforts to achieve breakthroughs in key and core technologies, promote integrated development of the digital economy and the real economy, and improve the governance system for the digital economy. Measures should also be taken to make the digital economy better serve and integrate into the new development paradigm, he says. According to the plan to facilitate the development of the digital economy in the 14th Five-Year Plan period, China aims to raise the proportion of the added value of core digital economy industries in its GDP to 10 percent in 2025, up from 7.8 percent in 2020. (With input from Xinhua) (Cover: The exhibition center of the China International Digital Economy Expo 2021 in Shijiazhuang, north China's Hebei Province, September 6, 2021. /Xinhua)