Chief Executive of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) Carrie Lam and 16 senior government officials on Saturday sent their New Year greetings to Hong Kong citizens through a local newspaper Wen Wei Po, pledging to make full use of the central government's support for the well-being of the people. In 2021, Lam noted that the central government improved the SAR's electoral system to ensure "patriots administering Hong Kong," and the SAR has successfully held two key elections. She added the national security law in Hong Kong has been in force with effective results that the rule of law has been manifested and people's rights have been fully protected. Thanks to the efforts of all parties and the cooperation of all Hong Kong citizens, the COVID-19 epidemic situation in the HKSAR is under control, and the economy has rebounded, Lam said. The SAR has continued to deepen cooperation with the mainland and integrated into the overall development of the country, Lam stressed, adding Hong Kong athletes have achieved historic results in the Tokyo Olympics and other events, setting off a sports fever. For the year 2022, the chief executive said the SAR government will grasp the hard-won good situation and make good use of the support from the central government to actively develop the economy and improve people's livelihood. The SAR government will still work on COVID-19 prevention and control, promote the implementation of the measures proposed in the policy address as well as actively boost land supply for housing, Lam said. She pledged to organize the election for the HKSAR's sixth-term chief executive well and cooperate sincerely with the new Legislative Council (LegCo) of the HKSAR. Lam also mentioned the SAR will organize a series of activities with various community sectors to celebrate the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland. The seventh-term LegCo began its four-year term of office on Saturday. Lam will administer the oath-taking ceremony for members of the seventh-term LegCo on January 3, and on January 12, the new LegCo is expected to hold its first session.