The Los Angeles Lakers defeated the Sacramento Kings 122-114 at Crypto.com Arena on Tuesday, achieving their third straight win. LeBron James was again the starting center for the purple and gold, but coach Frank Vogel made key changes to the team's rotation by giving Dwight Howard, a full-sized center, much longer time on the floor. Having played more than 21 minutes in Tuesday's game, Howard had a double-double of 14 points, 14 rebounds, three assists and two steals after finishing four dunks in the paint. With him on the court, the Lakers beat the Kings in offensive rebounds (14-7) and points in the paint (62-46). Though Howard posed little offensive threat, his presence gave the Lakers more options on both offense and defense. For example, instead of choosing between driving against the defender directly and shooting a tough pull-up jumper, Malik Monk, Russell Westbrook and Talen Horton-Tucker could try more hand-off plays with Howard around the 3-point line for less crowded penetration lanes. Moreover, the Lakers' perimeter players had a bigger and better finisher to pass to when Howard was there, so they didn't have to drive too deep and try more predictable and riskier passes. The defense benefited from Howard as well. One of the biggest problems of the Lakers' small-ball squad was the lack of reliable rim protection. As a result, when the perimeter defense was beaten, they either watched an opponent slash inside for an easy layup or concede open 3-pointers. Despite being 36 years old, Howard's still a trustworthy pillar under the rim in front of most guards in today's league. Without the need to switch off of their assignments, Lakers defenders had better chances to jump passing lanes, which explains why the purple and gold forced 18 turnovers in Tuesday's game. When James did not have to shoulder extra defensive duties as he did in previous games, he had more strength saved for the fourth quarter. The 37-year-old went 6-10 in field goals (FGs) to score 14 points in Q4, helping the Lakers outscore the Kings 37-31 in this quarter. Monk and Horton-Tucker made key contributions to their team's victory on Tuesday as well. Monk drained six of shots from beyond the arc to score 24 points while Tucker was 5-6 in the paint to score 19 points and delivered a team-high six assists. Tuesday also witnessed the end of Westbrook's turnover streak after 407 games in over five years. Though his middle and long-range shooting was still a headache (1-9), Westbrook utilized his ability to charge the rim, knocking down 6 of 10 shots in the paint and scoring 19 points for the Lakers. A lead over the Grizzlies is never safe The Memphis Grizzlies beat the Cleveland Cavaliers 110-106 at Rocket Mortgage Fieldhouse on Tuesday to secure their sixth win in a row. The Grizzlies trialed by as many as 11 points in the game, but managed to come back in the end. It was the ninth game this season in which the team has overcome a double-digit deficit. No other team can match the Grizzlies in this area. Having won 10 of their last 11 road games, the Grizzlies are one of the toughest teams in today's NBA. Ja Morant continued to dominate in clutch time. The Grizzlies held a three-point lead (98-95) with four minutes remaining. Morant scored 10 of the team's next 12 points, including a layup made after floating in the air and a fast-break shot after a key steal in the end. "At the end of games, I love being the guy to take that shot – make or miss – and I've been delivering of late," Morant said after the game. "When I attack, my job is just to make the right play, whether it's me or it's a drop-off to one of my teammates." Welcome to Phoenix, a wonderland for centers The Phoenix Suns defeated the New Orleans Pelicans 123-110 at Smoothie King Center on Tuesday for their second consecutive win. The Suns signed Bismack Biyombo after Deandre Ayton and JaVale McGee both entered the COVID-19 protocol. As an undersized center, Biyombo has averaged only 5.2 points in his career and reached a 60 percent FG rate only once in 10 seasons. Nonetheless, he has scored 27 points at an 84.6 percent clip in two games since he arrived. On Tuesday, Biyombo was 6-6 for the Suns to score 16 points while making his presence felt on defense with two steals and three blocks. That's how magical Chris Paul has been as an orchestrator. The 36-year-old finished with an 11-point, 15-assist double-double and only three turnovers. It was Paul's 98th game with at least 15 assists, matching Isiah Thomas for the fifth most in NBA history. "He was finding guys all night," Suns head coach Monty Williams said. "He had that look in his eyes when I would call plays. He had a really good rhythm, and guys were knocking down shots. Chris was finding guys all night." Other games on Tuesday (away teams come first): San Antonio Spurs 104-129 Toronto Raptors Indiana Pacers 94-104 New York Knicks