Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Friday welcomed his Omani counterpart Sayyid Badr Hamad al-Busaidi, who is currently on a visit in Wuxi City, east China's Jiangsu Province. Wang called on the two countries to deepen win-win cooperation and push for further development of the bilateral strategic partnership. Hailing the traditional friendship between China and Oman, Wang spoke highly of the Middle Eastern country's policy towards China. China will continue to firmly support Oman in preserving its national sovereignty, safety and stability, he said. As two developing countries and emerging market economies, China and Oman face common challenges, Wang added, expressing the hope that the two sides would deepen mutually beneficial cooperation and carry forward their strategic partnership. In the first three quarters of last year, the China-Oman bilateral trade volume bucked a downward trend and grew by over 60 percent, demonstrating the vitality of China-Oman relations, the foreign minister noted. China is willing to take part in major Omani construction projects and encourages more Chinese enterprises to invest in Oman. Sayyid Badr said he appreciated China's strong support and pledged Oman's firm adherence to the one-China principle and support of China in safeguarding its legitimate interests. Oman is willing to further deepen its strategic partnership with China and actively participate in the Belt and Road Initiative, Sayyid Badr said, also expressing Oman's support for the upcoming Beijing Winter Olympics. The two sides agreed to enhance all-round cooperation, including cooperation in trade, the economy and anti-pandemic areas. They reached an agreement on mutual visa exemptions and agreed to sign relevant documents at an early date to facilitate personnel exchanges and promote cultural and people-to-people exchanges. The two sides also exchanged views on multilateral and regional issues of common concern. (With input from Xinhua) (Cover: Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi meets with Omani Foreign Minister Sayyid Badr Hamad al-Busaidi, in Wuxi City, east China's Jiangsu Province, January 14, 2022. /Chinese Foreign Ministry)