South African President Cyril Ramaphosa on Sunday said he "believes" somebody is being held and questioned in relation to the fire at the country's parliament in the legislative capital Cape Town and promised a deep investigation into it. The fire at the South African parliament on Sunday caused extensive damage, collapsing the roof and gutting an entire floor in one building, with firefighters partially containing the blaze after several hours. "We need to go a lot deeper, a lot deeper into how this type of event can take place and what measures we will need to take going forward," Ramaphosa told reporters outside the parliament. The president said the fire started at the hall of the old assembly building, then moved to the lower house National Assembly. He also commended key officials for their great capability, speed and resource mobilization in response to the fire, and said Speaker of the National Assembly Nosiviwe Mapisa-Nqakula was rushing to the scene from the neighboring province the Eastern Cape by car as she couldn't get a flight. The parliamentary complex, some of which dates back to 1884, consists of a cluster of buildings. The fire has affected both the Old Assembly Wing and the National Assembly Wing of the buildings of the parliament, which house the National Assembly and the upper chamber of National Council of Provinces, according to a statement from the parliament. The fire has been contained in the old wing and firefighters are currently trying to control the fire in the new wing, where the fire has affected the National Assembly chamber, it said in a statement, adding that no one has been injured. The cause of the fire has not been established and investigations are underway by the relevant authorities, it said. Jean-Pierre Smith, a Cape Town mayoral committee member responsible for safety and security, said the roof of the old building had collapsed, and added the fire had gutted the third floor of the building, including office space and the gymnasium. It is the second fire at the parliament in less than a year. In March there was a blaze caused by an electrical fault. (With input from agencies)