China will join hands with "all countries that love peace and uphold justice" to make new and greater contributions to safeguarding world peace and prosperity this year, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said. Wang made the remarks in a Chinese Lunar New Year message to diplomatic corps in Beijing, which was published on the website of the Chinese Foreign Ministry on Saturday. The Chinese Lunar New Year, Spring Festival, falls on February 1. Describing 2021 as a year "full of turbulence and challenges," Wang reviewed the spread of COVID-19 across the globe, difficulties faced by the world economy and the complex international situation. "A certain country attempted to draw lines based on values and ideologies, and stoke division and confrontation in the name of democracy and human rights, casting clouds of a new Cold War over the whole world," he said. "Meanwhile, peace and development remained the theme of the times. Solidarity over division and cooperation over confrontation became the shared aspiration and choice of the majority of countries," he added. The diplomat underscored China's contributions to the world last year in terms of fighting the pandemic, promoting economic recovery, and defending international fairness and justice. China had provided more than two billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines to over 120 countries and international organizations by the end of last year, he noted. China made joint efforts with the majority of countries in the world to advocate true multilateralism and uphold the UN-centered international system and the international order underpinned by international law, he said. In 2022, China will "celebrate the Winter Olympics with all countries in the spirit of solidarity and cooperation," he said. The Beijing Winter Olympics will take place from February 4 to 20, followed by the Paralympic Winter Games from March 4 to 13. "We have the confidence and capability to overcome distractions and make the Winter Games a grand global event that enhances mutual understanding and friendship and brings the whole world 'together for a shared future,'" Wang said. China will continue to contribute to the global fight against COVID-19 and "support other developing countries in closing the immunization gap," he said. Moreover, China will "strengthen friendship and cooperation with all countries in the spirit of mutual respect and mutual trust," he added, calling on all countries to strive for greater cooperation and mutual trust and less friction and division. China will also advance the implementation of the Global Development Initiative and boost high-quality Belt and Road cooperation with relevant parties, he said.