The Dallas Mavericks retired the No. 41 jersey of their legendary German power forward Dirk Nowitzki at American Airlines Center on Wednesday after the 99-82 win over the visiting Golden State Warriors. Having played 21 seasons in the team, Nowitzki leads in pretty much career stat in franchise history. He has scored 31,560 points, the sixth-most in NBA history after being named the All-Star 14 times, All-NBA First Team four times, Second Team five times and Third Team three times. Nowitzki was the NBA Most Valuable Player (MVP) in 2007 and led the Mavericks to win their first and only NBA Championship in 2011 by beating the Miami heat by LeBron James, Dwyane Wade and Chris Bosh. Nowitzki's champion teammates, including Jason Kidd, who is currently the head coach of the Mavericks, attended the ceremony. Some of the people who also played significant roles in the German big man's career and life couldn't come in person, but they sent their wishes via videos. Mark Cuban, owner of the Mavericks, unveiled a small statue of Nowitzki doing his signature move of shooting a fadeaway, at the ceremony and promised there will be a big statue standing outside the home arena in the future. "I want everybody to see your greatness forever, Dirk," Cuban said. "So your name is on the court. And even though you didn't want it to happen, your silhouette is on the floor. And one of the things we do so that all future Mavs fans and all future players will always know your greatness is, we put your numbers up in the rafters. But that's not all we do, Dirk, because I want everybody to see more of you and because I made you a promise. I'm going to keep my promise." Nowitzki recalled that when he arrived at the airport in Dallas back in 1998, a large crow was greeting him there. "He turns to me and says, 'Those were not fans. Those were Mavs employees, and they were sent out there," Nowitzki said. "They were sent out there to greet me, but I didn't know the difference at the time. It made a huge impact on me." "I always tell you guys, find your passion in life and work hard," Nowitzki told his kids at the ceremony. "And great things can happen." "I know you don't love the limelight. You're a shy and modest guy, but this is as much about you as it is about me," Nowitzki said to Holger Geschwindner, his longtime mentor and the man that made Nowitzki who he is today. The Mavericks managed to decorate the touching ceremony with a victory at home. Luka Doncic dropped 26 points, seven rebounds and eight assists for team. Though he his hands were as cold as most of the players on the floor, especially around the 3-point line (2-8), Doncic managed to hurt the opponents' defense by drawing 12 free throws and making 10 of them. Stephen Curry had one of the worst-performing games at American Airlines Center on Wednesday after shooting 5-24 in field goals (FGs) and 1-9 in triples. He was also blocked three times and committed five turnovers. Steve Kerr, head coach of the Warriors defended Curry by revealing his injury. "He got a pretty good quad contusion and those generally get worse overnight. With a flight and everything, there's a chance he won't play tomorrow," Kerr said. Kyrie returns and the Nets win The Brooklyn Nets beat the Indiana Pacers 129-121 at Gainbridge Fieldhouse on Wednesday as Kyrie Irving came back to play his first game for the Nets in the 2021-22 regular season. As New York City extended the COVID-19 vaccine mandate, Irving, who remains unvaccinated, is still unable to play for the Nets at home at the Barclays Center or Madison Square Garden against the New York Knicks. However, the team decided to allow him to play on the road after the recent under-performance. Having shot at 9-17 in FGs, Irving scored 22 points, four assists and three steals for his team. Though he missed the two attempts from downtown, he was still reliable in the middle range where Irving went 7-13. He had 10 points in the last quarter, helping the Nets launch a 35-20 rally. "He didn't act nervous, he has a nice poker face. He's a quiet guy. He plays with energy and passion," Kevin Durant said. KD was still the best-performing one for the Nets, getting 39 points, eight rebounds and seven assists. "This meant a little more, taking eight months off and so much uncertainty," Irving said. "I settled down closer to the second half. Whatever the team (needs), I'll do." Other games on Wednesday (away teams come first): Detroit Pistons 111-140 Charlotte Hornets Philadelphia 76ers 116-106 Orlando Magic Houston Rockets 114-111 Washington Wizards Toronto Raptors 117-111 Milwaukee Bucks Oklahoma City Thunder 90-98 Minnesota Timberwolves Utah Jazz 115-109 Denver Nuggets Miami Heat 115-109 Portland Trail Blazers Atlanta Hawks 108-102 Sacramento Kings