COVID-hit Bayern Munich crashed to a 2-1 defeat at home to Borussia Moenchengladbach on Friday with the Bundesliga leaders forced to name a makeshift team after nine stars tested positive for the coronavirus. Robert Lewandowski cracked in his 20th league goal this season to give Bayern an early lead, but Gladbach hit back with two goals in four (first-half) minutes by Florian Neuhaus and Stefan Lainer. "Gladbach aren't our favorite opponents," said Bayern striker Thomas Mueller as the team had already crashed to a 5-0 defeat at Gladbach in the German Cup last October. "It is bitter to lose, but we have to swallow the defeat," Mueller said. Mueller refused to blame the defeat on their depleted squad. "We had a lot of quality on the pitch and we shouldn't have given away so much possession in the final third of the pitch," he said. "The worst thing is we didn't put our chances away," Mueller admitted after he twice came close to grabbing a second-half equalizer. Despite the defeat behind closed doors in Munich, Bayern remain nine points clear at the top of the table. Manchester City shrugged off the absence of manager Pep Guardiola and seven first-team players due to coronavirus to ease past League Two Swindon Town 4-1 in the English Football Association (FA) Cup third round on Friday. Rodolfo Borrell took charge of the English champions with Guardiola and assistant Juanma Lilo among 14 backroom staff affected by a major outbreak. "We were in touch at half time. There was not a massive change because everything was as planned as before," said Borrell on his contact with Guardiola. "He has great confidence in all of us. Not just me but all the backroom staff." Meanwhile, Manchester United interim manager Ralf Rangnick has downplayed reports of dressing room discontent at Old Trafford, saying unrest is inevitable with a deep squad. The German has suggested the squad he inherited is too big, with many players unhappy at their lack of playing time. United suffered a demoralizing 1-0 home defeat to Wolves on January 3 that could prove costly in their bid to finish in the Premier League's top four. The Mirror newspaper reported, on Thursday, that as many as 17 players wanted to leave the club, who are 22 points behind leaders Manchester City. "If you have that many players and 10 outfield players can play and three being substituted, then of course you have quite a number of players, in our case 12, 13, 14 players who don't even play, or not even being in the squad," said Rangnick on Friday. "Then those players are not happy about that situation. It's obvious, it's clear." "In total, we have a big squad. I tend to explain to players every two or three weeks why they are not playing but obviously I cannot do that every game and that is an issue in our team as well as in other clubs," he said. (With input from agencies)