Manchester United suffered their first defeat under interim manager Ralf Rangnick, falling to a 1-0 loss at home to Wolverhampton Wanderers in the Premier League on Monday. An 82nd minute strike from Joao Moutinho earned Wolves their first win at Old Trafford since 1980 and moved Bruno Lage's side up to the eighth place. United, who could have few complaints about the result after a poor performance, remain on the seventh place with 31 points, four behind Arsenal who currently hold the fourth Champions League spot. Wolves created a series of chances in the first half but it was not until eight minutes from the end that they made their superiority count when Moutinho pounced on a headed clearance from Phil Jones and fired past David De Gea. German Rangnick, who is in charge of United until the end of the season after taking over from sacked Ole Gunnar Solskjaer, saw a disjointed display by his team with little sign of the high-energy pressing style he had initially attempted to introduce. "We didn't play well at all individually or collectively. In the first half, we had big problems to keep them away from our goal," said Rangnick. "The game showed we still have a lot of work to do. We had too many unforced errors. I don't want to speak about individual performances of players. It's an issue of the whole team. It doesn't make sense," he added. Kylian Mbappe scored a hat-trick as Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) overcame their COVID-19 crisis and a drone-related interruption to ease into the French Cup last 16 on Monday with a 4-0 win over fourth-division Vannes. Despite the absence of five PSG players, including superstar Lionel Messi and Danilo after positive tests for COVID-19, Mauricio Pochettino's side were never worried by the Brittany minnows. Defender Presnel Kimpembe, wearing the captain's armband, headed in after 28 minutes just after the match had been interrupted for a minute after a drone flew over the Rabine Stadium in western France. Kimpembe then set up Mbappe for the second just before the hour mark with the French forward completing a hat-trick in an 18-minute spell. Mbappe added a second after 71 minutes and a third six minutes later for his 150th goal in a PSG jersey. (With input from agencies)