The 2021 NFL regular season wrapped up on Sunday, and all 14 teams for the upcoming playoffs have been confirmed. The fixtures of the postseason are: American Football Conference (AFC): No. 1 Tennessee Titans (bye) No. 2 Kansas City Chiefs vs. No. 7 Pittsburgh Steelers No. 3 Buffalo Bills vs. No. 6 New England Patriots No. 4 Cincinnati Bengals vs. No. 5 Las Vegas Raiders The Steelers just had one of the most challenging trips to the playoffs. Their record of 8-7-1 before Sunday did not look good for postseason qualification competition, and they threw themselves in such a situation because they failed to beat the Detroit Lions, one of the worst teams this season, in November 2021. On Sunday, the Steelers first edged out the Baltimore Ravens 16-13 in overtime (OT) at M&T Bank Stadium. Quarterback (QB) Ben Roethlisberger managed to achieve an eight-yard fourth down to move the ball close enough for Chris Boswell to score the game-winning 36-yard field goal. Despite the win on the road, the Steelers still had to wait for the game's result between the Raiders and the Chargers. The Raiders would reach the playoffs anyway, with the only difference being who they would play. The Chargers could join the Riders as long as they didn't lose. The game at Allegiant Stadium on Sunday came close to ending as a tie, but Daniel Carlson's 47-yard field goal in OT saved the Steelers, long-time rivals of the Raiders, and kicked the Chargers, competitors of the Raiders in the AFC West, with a 35-32 win. The Raiders deserved respect for their continuous efforts for nothing but victory in an uphill battle. Rich Bisaccia became the first interim head coach in NFL history to take a team to the playoffs in the Super Bowl era. By contrast, the Chargers and their head coach Brandon Staley should really reflect some of his calls, including why his team had to rely on their QB Justin Herbert to save them from so many fourth downs in Sunday's game. At least the Chargers fought till the last possession for a playoff berth. The Indianapolis Colts, which had seven players named for the Pro Bowl, the most in the league, blew their postseason qualification away by losing to the Jacksonville Jaguars 26-11 at TIAA Bank Field on Sunday. The Colts' QB Carson Wentz was sacked six times for 46 lost yards. However, the team's rushing yards leader Jonathan Taylor produced 77 yards with 15 runs. This was the Colts' seventh straight loss to the Jaguars on the road. They had to begin their offseason without even one first-round draft pick. National Football Conference (NFC): No. 1 Green Bay Packers (bye) No. 2 Tampa Bay Buccaneers vs. No. 7 Philadelphia Eagles No. 3 Dallas Cowboys vs. No. 6 San Francisco 49ers No. 4 Los Angeles Rams vs. No. 5 Arizona Cardinals The Rams had the chance to take on relatively easier opponents of the Eagles if they hadn't lost to the 49ers 27-24 in OT at SoFi Stadium on Sunday. Rams QB Matthew Stafford threw at 21-32 for 238 yards and three touchdowns (TDs) but again with two interceptions. The second interception was by Ambry Thomas in OT and it led to the loss of the Rams. Jimmy Garoppolo, QB of the 49ers, had to beat torn thumb ligament to run the team's offense on Sunday and dragged his team to OT by connecting with Jauan Jennings with a 14-yard pass for a TD when there were only 26 seconds left. "Getting off to a slow start and then coming back like we did, it took everything," Garoppolo said. "We say that a lot of weeks, but this one really did. I felt it after the game. I know a lot of guys in that locker room did. It was worth it, though. It was one of those games you won't forget any time soon." Other games on Sunday (away teams come first): Green Bay Packers 30-37 Detroit Lions Washington Football Team 22-7 New York Giants Chicago Bears 17-31 Minnesota Vikings Tennessee Titans 28-25 Houston Texans Cincinnati Bengals 16-21 Cleveland Browns Carolina Panthers 17-41 Tampa Bay Buccaneers New England Patriots 24-33 Miami Dolphins New Orleans Saints 30-20 Atlanta Falcons New York Jets 10-27 Buffalo Bills Seattle Seahawks 38-30 Arizona Cardinals