Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas said on Monday that a new political path must be opened to end the Israeli occupation, the official Palestinian news agency WAFA reported. The Palestinians "will not agree to remain forever under the occupation, and the occupation must end in accordance with the international resolutions and under the umbrella of the international Quartet," Abbas was quoted by WAFA as saying at the end of a two-day meeting of his Fatah Party's Revolutionary Council. The international Quartet usually refers to a group of the United Nations, the United States, the European Union and Russia that was established in Madrid in 2002 to mediate the Israeli-Palestinian peace process. During the meeting, which was held in the West Bank city of Ramallah, the 86-year-old president announced that the Palestinian Central Council, the mini parliament of the Palestine Liberation Organization, will soon hold an important meeting to make decisive and necessary decisions. "These decisions aim to protect the Palestinian cause and the national merits that will never make a compromise to it whatever the price is," Abbas said. Abbas had warned that if Israel rejects the world-backed two-state solution, "the Palestinians will be obliged to go for other political choices." In October 2021, Abbas said one of the choices is to implement the UN Security Council's resolution passed in 1947, or build one democratic state on the land of historic Palestine in which the full political and civil rights of the Palestinians are gained. Israel occupied the West Bank and East Jerusalem, which are claimed by the Palestinians, in the 1967 Middle East war and has controlled them ever since. According to Israeli and Palestinian estimates, about 650,000 Israeli settlers live in 164 settlements and 124 outposts in the West Bank and East Jerusalem. Israel's settlement expansion has been the thorniest issue in the Palestinian-Israeli conflict and one of the major reasons behind the stalemate in the peace negotiations between the two sides since 2014. The last direct peace talks between Israelis and Palestinians, sponsored by the United States, lasted nine months and broke down in 2014 over their deep differences on the issues of borders, security and settlements.