January 28 was the final day of campaigning in the Portuguese election ahead of the vote on Sunday, and there was a euphoric atmosphere at a rally held by Portugal's governing Socialist Party or PS as it's known. The government of Prime Minister Antonio Costa, in power since 2015, is looking to win a third consecutive term.  "Employment continues to grow, the minimum wage is increasing, pensions are going to be increased, taxes are going to be lowered and, despite everything, we are going to continue to reduce our deficit and our debt. Yes, together we will make it happen," he told supporters. A change in government? The major obstacle to that third term is the opposition Social Democratic Party (PSD). CGTN Europe went to their final rally ahead of the poll to speak to some PSD supporters. Many believe that this election offers them the best chance since 2015 of gaining power. "They want to boost the economy, instead of directly reducing taxes for people, they want to reduce it for business instead, so they can create more jobs and hopefully improve the economy," said a woman. "PSD has a totally different model than the Socialist Party, focused on economic development that makes it possible to improve people's lives," another man added. The snap election was called back in November last year after Antonio Costa's government failed to get the 2022 state budget ratified by parliament.  That budget is hugely important because it sets out how billions of dollars of European Union aid will be spent to help Portugal recover from the pandemic.  But what's even more significant is the fact Costa's two former allies, the Communists and Left Bloc, sided with right-wing parties to reject the government's budget bill thus triggering the election. Rise of the right  The leader of Portugal's main far-right party known as "Chega" translated in English as "Enough" is former TV sports host Andre Ventura. Polls show that the party he founded just three years ago could find itself as the third-largest bloc in the 230 seat assembly. And with neither of the two major parties looking like they will win a majority on Sunday, Chega may well hold the key to the Social Democrats forming the next government.