Kazakh President Kassym-Jomart Tokayev told local media outlet Khabar-24 on Saturday that an international investigation into the mass riots that broke out in his country in January is "unnecessary." "As for the international probe into the events in Kazakhstan, I do not think that such an investigation is needed. We can handle it on our own. We have honest and impartial people who will chair public commissions. Neither my administration nor I took part in creating these commissions. They have freely decided to establish such institutions," the president said. Tokayev also described a resolution recently passed by the European Parliament as "absolutely biased, premature and dictated by lobbyists." The resolution, which is not legally binding, demands an international investigation into the events in the central Asian country. Protests sparked by fuel price hikes were staged in several Kazakh cities in early January. Some later turned into violent demonstrations and led to at least 225 deaths and over 4,500 injuries. Tokayev has said on many occasions that professionals masterminded the events and that foreign forces were involved. "I think it was a calculated action, what is more, with all the stages of the unrest – starting with peaceful protests, which did take place, and ending with homicide and looting," Tokayev told the Khabar-24 interview. "It was a comprehensive operation masterminded by professionals and executed by professionals. As for the peaceful demonstrations, of course, they took place. There was not and could not have been any use of force against demonstrators." Tokayev said many of the fighters who took part in the mass riots in Almaty have left the city, including those who escaped into neighboring countries. Commenting on the Collective Security Treaty Organization (CSTO) forces' peacekeeping mission in Kazakhstan, he said it was absolutely legal and that the peacekeepers did not fire a single shot. Tokayev had called in the CSTO peacekeeping force to help the Kazakhstan security forces calm the domestic situation. They withdrew from Kazakhstan at the end of their mission on January 19. During the interview, the president also confirmed that he does not intend to serve more than two terms as head of state and that the constitution would not be amended. "I do not know how long I am going to be president of Kazakhstan, but I am absolutely aware that no more than two terms under the constitution. There will be no changes in laws, moreover, in the constitution," he said. (With input from agencies)