The annual Spring Festival travel rush in China is almost at its peak as the week-long Lunar New Year holiday is just around the corner, and the recently-opened China-Laos Railway is no exception. The 1,000-plus-kilometer cross-border line connects Kunming, capital of southwest China's Yunnan Province, with the Lao capital of Vientiane. Its opening includes some cities in Yunnan, like Pu'er and Xishuangbanna, into the country's extensive rail network. For many people, it's their first time to travel home for the most important festival of the year by train. "I'm really happy. The travel time has been shortened dramatically. It's really convenient," Liu Yan, who attends high school in a city some 700 kilometers from her hometown Xishuangbanna, told CGTN. The 17-year-old said she had to spend about eight hours for a bus trip before the railway was constructed. "In the past, I had to bring many snacks for a long bus trip. It was such a burden. But on the train, there are a lot of food options," she said. For Sun Yi, who is also from Xishuangbanna but works in another city in Yunnan, the rail line has made a wish come true. He said when he was in college, unlike his roommates who could take the high-speed rail, his only option was to take a bus, since the air ticket wasn't something he could afford. "Back then, I always thought if only my hometown had a railway," Sun told CGTN. "I'm so excited and proud to board this train today. I even bought a first-class seat as a reward to myself," he added. With a sporadic spike in COVID-19 cases happening across the country, stringent prevention measures have been put in place. Firstly, the train crew must each receive three vaccine jabs. Along with this, all passengers looking to travel must have a negative PCR test result within 48 hours of traveling. And there is a special kit on each train in case of any last-minute emergencies. The kit includes thermometers, goggles and protective suits. "If someone gets a fever, we'll get changed into these suits and double check their temperature before activating our emergency response plan," said Song Lei, a conductor. There are some other considerate services on the train. For example, color-coded Chinese knots, a kind of traditional Chinese decoration, are prepared. Each color represents a special passenger group – children, seniors, pregnant women, the sick and the disabled. "These decorations are a reminder for our crew to provide regular and efficient service to these passengers," said Song. Meanwhile, the rail operator has developed a special mobile phone application, through which passengers can order food conveniently to avoid gathering in crowds. Both the railway staff and the many passengers hope to see an end to the COVID-19 pandemic as soon as possible, so long-anticipated cross-border passenger trips can be made. (Cover: A high-speed train arrives at Kunming Railway Station, southwest China's Yunnan Province. Luo Caiwen/CGTN)