Czech star Eva Samkova, who burst onto the Olympic scene by winning the snowboard cross gold at Sochi 2014, has ruled herself out of the upcoming Beijing Winter Games after failing to recover from an ankle injury that has kept her sidelined for more than a month. The 28-year-old snowboarder, who also pocketed a bronze medal at PyeongChang 2018, broke both her ankles in a crash during a World Cup race in Austria in December. Despite an urgent operation and weeks of intensive rehabilitation, Samkova is still struggling for full fitness. "The decision not to go to Beijing was difficult, but it's the right one. Now I'm focusing on getting better and moving on," said Samkova in a statement posted by the Czech ski and snowboard federation on Thursday night. "The Olympics is not the most important thing in the world and now I can prove that I feel that way. At the beginning of the season I was riding well. I want to thank everyone who helps me and believes in me, people around me, all my partners and fans. I will heal and come back," added Samkova, who won four of her eight World Cup starts this season before being hit by the ankle injury. Samkova was one of the favorites to secure gold in snowboard cross in Beijing, her absence means reigning world champion Charlotte Bankes and 2018 Olympic champion Michela Moioli are expected to slug it out in a much-anticipated showdown in February. "From a sporting point of view, Eva's absence is a great loss for the entire Czech team. But we all support her in her decision, health is the most important thing. We wish Eva to achieve further great results in the future," said Lukas Hermansky, president of Czech ski and snowboard federation. The sentiment was echoed by President of the Czech Olympic Committee Jiri Kejval. "Not only because Eva was one of the hot candidates for Olympic medals, but also because she is a great teammate who perfectly cemented the team. Her presence at the Olympics helped motivate the other athletes. But we are not hanging our heads, as Eva's coach said, the preparation for the Olympic Games in Cortina and Milan has just started," Kejval said. Meanwhile, the Polish Ski Association confirmed on Thursday that their ski jumping veteran Piotr Zyla had tested positive for COVID-19. The 35-year-old, who won the world title in the men's normal hill discipline last November, was due to fly to Beijing with his teammates on January 31, but his contraction of COVID-19 casts doubt on his Olympic participation, according to Polish media outlets.