Editor's note: This Year's World Leprosy Day falls on January 30. For the past five years, China has witnessed an increase of roughly 400 leprosy cases each year. This story shows the work of local governments and organizations in China in helping leprosy-recovered patients improve their well-being. "I really want to go home to see my brothers and sisters," said a leprosy recovered patient surnamed Li, who is in his 70s and lived at a leprosy village in north China's Hebei Province. However, Li did not make the dreamed trip. "It's because of a deep-rooted fear and social discrimination that Li's family members did not allow the poor elder to return home," said Pan Chunzhi, China Leprosy Association's secretary general, who knows Li's story. In Pan's opinion, another thing makes Li's trip unachievable is that he is disabled and it's not realistic for his family members to take care of him. Thus, it may be realistic for Li to go on living at the leprosy village. Li is not alone. Nowadays there are roughly more than 10,000 leprosy recovered patients residing in more than 500 leprosy villages countrywide, mainly in southwest China's Yunnan, Guizhou and Sichuan provinces, which are mainly located near sea and have a humid and hot climate. Leprosy is a long-term infection caused by a type of bacteria. The disease has a long history, and since it is infectious without effective medicine, people who had it were often isolated by society in the cruelest manner before 1949. One thing worse is that the infection could develop and damage its victims' nerves, which make them lose the ability to sense pain when they suffer an injury, thus increasing their rate of disfigurement and disability, said Pan. Since the 1980s, China began multidrug therapy, which was developed by the World Health Organization (WHO), and since then the incidence rate of leprosy has gradually been lowered. By the end of 2020, there were less than 2,000 registered leprosy patients in China, said Pan, adding that, "there have been nearly 400 more leprosy patients each year recently." Thanks to MDT, which can help kill the bacteria within a week, people who have been diagnosed with the bacterial infection are usually told to stay at home and receive confidential treatment instead of going to leprosy villages. Patients receiving the therapy can recover after a period ranging from six months to a year, without becoming physically handicapped. But for those with serious symptoms, they are advised to receive medical treatment at leprosy villages or relevant hospitals. One thing to notice is that leprosy is a disease which used to be found among malnourished people in rural areas, said Pan. That's why residents in existing leprosy villages are mostly in their 80s and physically disabled. They did not have chance to enjoy MDT therapy but also could not return to their hometowns to do farm work. Let alone see their family members and other villagers due to fear and discrimination. The social discrimination and their own disfigurements and disabilities in turn caused the seniors who recovered to have a sense of inferiority. "I found the elderly had a serious inferiority complex when I visited a leprosy village in 1996," said Qi Xiuli, deputy secretary-general of the Handa Rehabilitation and Welfare Association (HANDA) in south China's Guangdong Province. Most of the seniors have disabilities in their limbs, so they are reluctant to go out, Qi added. HANDA was established in 1996 by a veteran doctor who contributed to treating leprosy patients, to help the recovered leprosy patients boost their confidence, gradually start going outside again and earn a living. Besides for providing artificial limbs to the seniors living at leprosy villages, HANDA paid more attention to their psychosocial rehabilitation. We invited social workers and volunteers to listen to the seniors' story and take them to travel outside their villages, said Qi, adding that the elderly gradually feel that people don't discriminate against them. To improve the living standards of those who recovered, HANDA also train the elderly in topics such as bee keeping and tea planting. "Four elders keep bees at a leprosy village, and we help them sell the honey," Qi said. Besides HANDA, there are also many other social organizations and relevant governments lending their hands in helping eliminate the social discrimination against leprosy and improving the well-being for them. Local governments allocate money to cover leprosy recovered patients' nursing and living at leprosy villages, said Pan, adding that in south China's Hainan Province, each leprosy recovered patient gets more than 2,000 yuan per month from the local government. Though the average of 400 more leprosy cases in recent years is far lower than WHO's leprosy elimination standard of one case per 10,000 people, Pan is worried that the sporadic incidences and existing social discrimination mean that nationwide publicity on the disease is still not enough. As one of the world's oldest diseases, there were 127,558 new leprosy cases detected globally in 2020, according to official figures from 139 countries from the six WHO regions.