Editor's note: CGTN's First Voice provides instant commentary on breaking stories. The daily column clarifies emerging issues and better defines the news agenda, offering a Chinese perspective on the latest global events. A volcano and tsunami aren't the only things that Tonga has to battle against. As the country recovers from an earth-shattering event, politics is making waves. In recent days, articles about the political opportunism in this crisis have surfaced. Nikkei published an article titled "Australia and New Zealand compete with China for Tonga influence." Japan, as described in a piece on The Japan News, is sending aid to the country "aimed at countering China's influence." A senior Japanese Foreign Ministry official was quoted as saying "Debt-ridden Tonga cannot turn its nose up at China. It's not easy to eliminate Beijing's influence." For many countries in the West or "liberal democracies," humanitarian aid has a history of being tied to political goals. Whether it is to force a policy change or win over a country's loyalty, aid has been used as a tool to achieve a geopolitical objective. It isn't a surprise that some officials in these countries have reverted to their default mindset and see the crisis as an opportunity to expand their footprints. A price will be paid in the end for treating people in need as if they are blind to the true intention behind an offer of help. But how Japan, New Zealand or Australia conduct themselves on this issue is not China's business, nor will the cost be billed to China. China doesn't put a condition on its aid. When Tonga's capital Nuku'alofa was severely damaged by riots in 2006, China offered low-interest loans to the South Pacific nation. At the time, the U.S. ambassador to Australia called China's action as "payday loan diplomacy." But it turned out that China was the only country willing to help Tonga during that time. A similar situation is occurring today. China's emergency aid was the first received by the Tongan government after the disaster struck, as confirmed by the country's deputy prime minister. What's revealing about these countries' mindset is exactly what they've been accusing China of. Jonathan Pryke, director of the Pacific Islands Programme at Australia's Lowy Institute, said that aid from Australia and New Zealand "is not entirely altruistic." "The support generates a lot of goodwill and 'soft-power' in the region and gives Australian and New Zealand defense assets the chance to 'get into the field'," Pryke said. The Japanese Foreign Minister Yoshimasa Hayashi's reason for aid was that Tonga is a "traditionally pro-Japanese country." "Traditionally pro-Japanese country;" these words speak volumes. In a nutshell, these countries see China as stepping into their sphere of influence.  China's aid, its relationship with Tonga and the benefit that Tonga receives from engaging with China have become, in their minds, threats to their hold on the South Pacific nation. Australia and New Zealand worry about their ships and guns in the region. Japan frets that "traditionally pro-Japan" could become a thing of the past. The politicizing of humanitarian aid should be tossed into history. The Cold War is over; the world is unprecedentedly interconnected. What happens in one country will have a lasting impact on the rest of the world – whether it is political, economic or, in Tonga's case, geological. Helping Tonga rebuild shouldn't be burdened with political intentions. It is not a race about who gets to do what or the most; it is about truly helping the country to rebuild. It is humanitarian aid – humanity should be the priority. Tonga has been going through many crises in the past weeks. The last thing it needs is a new geopolitical one that erupts. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com.)