Paris Saint-Germain's Italian goalkeeper Gianluigi Donnarumma, who just played in the French giants' 4-0 win over Vannes in the Coupe de France on Monday, has tested positive for COVID-19. "Gianluigi has been placed in isolation and is undergoing the appropriate health protocol," PSG said in a statement on Tuesday night. The news came as several PSG stars, including Lionel Messi, Juan Bernat, Danilo Pereira, Sergio Rico and Nathan Bitumazala, also returned positive tests for the virus on Sunday. Donnarumma, who was named UEFA's player of the tournament for Euro 2020 last summer, is set to miss Sunday's trip to Lyon as Ligue 1 resumes after the winter break in France. Earlier this week, AC Milan technical director Paolo Maldini put Donnarumma in the spotlight after he suggested the 22-year-old's move from Milan to Paris was purely motivated by money. "Gianluigi Donnarumma is a beautiful person, full of emotions," Maldini told reporters. "I think in an ideal world the only real motivation for a footballer should be passion, but if your goal is to achieve social redemption and money to give to your family, who tightened their belts for you during your childhood years, these are understandable motivations." "To achieve certain results and a certain stature as a player, sporting motivations are fundamental. Sometimes a player's needs do not match those of a club. There are those who prefer to wait and those who are in a hurry. It is not for me to judge certain choices." Meanwhile, Messi, who is still self-isolating in Argentina after testing positive, will not return to France until he tests negative, according to PSG manager Mauricio Pochettino. Elsewhere in England, Liverpool has formally requested the postponement of their League Cup semifinal clash with Arsenal on Thursday after more positive COVID-19 cases at the club. "The Reds have formally requested to the EFL that the fixture is rescheduled after further suspected positive tests were registered among players and staff, allied to other factors impacting selection, including illness and injury," read a statement. "In response, the club halted preparations at the Axa Training Centre, meaning Tuesday's first-team training session was cancelled. Among the considerations which led to today's application to the EFL is the need for travelling supporters to be given as much notice as possible of any potential postponement. "With no prospect of the current situation improving ahead of Thursday's fixture and the potential for it to worsen, the club considers it both prudent and reasonable to ask for the fixture to be rescheduled." The EFL said the request would be considered "in accordance with the competition rules as set out at the start of the season alongside information submitted by the club," and a decision would be confirmed "as soon as possible." In Italy, the latest figure shows that one out of every 10 players in Serie A is positive with the virus. Defending champions Inter Milan, Juventus, Napoli and Salernitana are all missing star players that are unavailable due to coronavirus-related issues. Multiple Italian media outlets revealed that Inter and Juventus had sought to postpone their Italian Super Cup clash at the San Siro on January 12 but the Italian league refused the request.