Real Madrid strike duo Karim Benzema and Vinicius Jr both scored a brace to give the La Liga leaders a 4-1 home win over Valencia on Saturday, putting them back on track after last weekend's disappointing loss to Getafe. Benzema opened the scoring shortly before halftime from the penalty spot, his 300th goal in all competitions for Real. He is the fourth player in the club's history to reach the milestone after Alfredo di Stefano (308), Raul (323) and Cristiano Ronaldo (450). Fan favorite Vinicius, who missed Real's last two games after testing positive for COVID-19, came back with a vengeance and scored twice early in the second half. Goncalo Guedes scored Valencia's consolation goal in the 76th minute with a header on the rebound after Thibaut Courtois had saved his penalty kick. Benzema sealed the emphatic win two minutes from the end with a low shot from inside the box. "It's an honor and I'm proud to reach 301 goals with Real Madrid because they are the best club in the world," Benzema told reporters. "We played a great game for ourselves but also for the fans, who deserved it after the loss to Getafe." Barcelona squandered the chance to climb back into La Liga's top four on Saturday as Granada scored a late equalizer to seal a 1-1 draw after Barca midfielder Gavi was sent off. Luuk de Jong put the Catalans in front at Los Carmenes stadium, heading in a cross from 38-year-old Dani Alves, who was making his first La Liga appearance since May 2016. Alves' last league game for Barcelona came five years ago, also away at Granada, and he also claimed an assist that day as Luis Suarez scored a hat-trick and Barca won the title. Now 14 points behind leaders Real Madrid, Alves has rejoined a team competing not for the title but a place in the top four, with Champions League qualification this season crucial to the club's hopes of recovery. The Brazilian's return is also aimed at strengthening the mentality of a youthful Barca side. Romelu Lukaku scored for Chelsea in a 5-1 English FA Cup third-round victory over National League side Chesterfield on Saturday. Lukaku struck in the 20th minute to give his side a 3-0 lead after goals by Timo Werner and Callum Hudson-Odoi had put the European champions in control at Stamford Bridge. Andreas Christensen made it 4-0 before halftime and Hakim Ziyech scored from the spot in the second half before Chesterfield's traveling fans were rewarded with a consolation goal for Akwasi Asante. It was Lukaku's first goal since upsetting manager Thomas Tuchel in a television interview. Lukaku was dropped for last Sunday's Premier League draw with Liverpool after comments he made in an interview recorded three weeks ago, saying he was not happy with his role at the club and would like to return to Inter Milan. (With input from agencies)