Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi announced on Friday that China has supplied more than 2.1 billion doses of COVID-19 vaccines to more than 120 countries, stressing China honors its words and has delivered on its solemn commitments with concrete action. China is the largest contributor to equitable vaccine distribution, Wang said when attending the United Nations General Assembly (UNGA) High-level Meeting on COVID-19 Vaccines via video link. "One in two doses of vaccines administered globally is made in China." According to the Chinese foreign minister, China has so far carried out joint production with 20 countries, with an annual production capacity of one billion doses. Wang put forward four proposals on Friday, saying China is ready to work with all other parties to strengthen cooperation on vaccines, build a "Great Wall of immunization", make due contributions to defeat the COVID-19 pandemic as soon as possible, and jointly build a global community of health for all. He called on parties to build a "safety net" of immunity, saying "as long as there is an immunity gap, the world cannot be completely safe." The nature of vaccines as a global public good should not be changed, major countries should not shirk from their responsibilities, multilateral mechanisms should not play a less important role, and the fairness, accessibility and affordability of vaccines should not be compromised, Wang said. The Chinese foreign minister also urged efforts to build up anti-pandemic "arsenals". "We should streamline and strengthen various COVID-19 countermeasures and use multiple technological means in a well-coordinated manner, so as to constantly add new dimensions to international joint prevention and control," said Wang. He also called for improving the "governance shield" of health and strengthening the "anchor of stability" of development. Wang said the world should uphold true multilateralism, improve the global health governance system, and spare no efforts to address the concerns and appeals of developing countries. "We should strike a proper balance between pandemic response and economic and social development, take targeted measures to address both symptoms and root causes, boost the economic vitality and endogenous driving force of all countries, especially developing countries, and lose no time in implementing the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development," he noted.