Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Monday called on the United States to stop hollowing out the one-China principle and interfering in China's internal affairs. Wang made the remarks in a speech via video link to a commemorative event marking the 50th anniversary of the issuance of the Shanghai Communique between China and the United States. The two countries issued the Joint Communique of the People's Republic of China and the United States of America in Shanghai on February 28, 1972, the last day of then U.S. President Richard Nixon's historic week-long visit to China. In the Shanghai Communique, Washington has acknowledged that "there is but one China and Taiwan is part of China." Wang said the U.S. should abide by the political commitments it has made to China and assume its international obligations. It should stop condoning or supporting "Taiwan independence" and stop attempts of "using Taiwan to contain China," so as to maintain peace and stability of the Taiwan Straits and safeguard the overall China-U.S. relations, he said. Wang stressed that cooperation should be the mainstream of China-U.S. relations, and to define them as competitive is just a part of the whole. There should be boundaries when it comes to competition, which should be based on fair and recognized international rules, he said. During a virtual meeting with U.S. President Joe Biden last November, Chinese President Xi Jinping said China and the United States should respect each other, coexist in peace and pursue win-win cooperation. In response, Biden said that the U.S. does not seek a "new Cold War" or seek to change China's system, that the revitalization of its alliances is not anti-China, that it does not support "Taiwan independence," and that it has no intention to have a conflict with China. Wang urged the United States to return to a rational and pragmatic policy toward China and work with China to implement the consensus reached by the two heads of state so as to bring the bilateral relations back on the right track. "Since the door of China-U.S. relations has been opened, it shall not be closed again," he said. "Since the world has come out of the Cold War, the iron curtain shall not be lowered again."