Chinese President Xi Jinping on Sunday met with Argentine President Alberto Fernandez at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing. As this year marks the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations between China and Argentina, Xi pointed out that the two countries have always understood and supported each other in the past half a century. Xi said China and Argentina have helped each other deal with the pandemic, setting a model of solidarity and cooperation among emerging market economies. China is willing to work with Argentina to build on the 50 years of bilateral relations, promote communication and cooperation in various fields and open up the next glorious 50 years of China-Argentina comprehensive strategic partnership, Xi said. The country is also willing to exchange experiences of state governance with Argentina and support each other's legitimate claims in safeguarding sovereignty, security and development interests, said Xi. Xi called on both countries to build the Belt and Road Initiative together with high quality, adding that the two sides should deepen cooperation in various areas, including trade, agriculture and anti-pandemic efforts. He also congratulated Argentina on being elected to occupy the rotating presidency of the Community of Latin American and Caribbean States this year. Fernandez, for his part,  said he is very happy to celebrate the Chinese New Year with the Chinese people and witness the wonderful opening ceremony of the Beijing Winter Olympics. He said he is proud of the great achievements in cooperation between the two countries since the establishment of diplomatic relations 50 years ago. Noting Argentina is a friend of China, Fernandez said his country has always adhered to the one-China principle and is firmly committed to deepening Argentina-China friendly relations. He thanked China for providing medical supplies and vaccines to Argentina to contain the pandemic, adding that Argentina hopes to continue to strengthen the cooperation in vaccine and pharmaceutical production. Argentina will continue to actively participate in the Belt and Road Initiative and welcomes more Chinese enterprises to invest in the country, said Fernandez. On Sunday, the two sides released a joint statement on deepening the comprehensive strategic partnership. In it, they jointly launched the 2022 Year of China-Argentina Friendship and Cooperation, promoting communication in culture, sports, media and other fields.