China and Argentina on Sunday released a joint statement on deepening the comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries. The statement was issued after a meeting between Chinese President Xi Jinping and Argentine President Alberto Fernandez, who is on a visit to China from Friday to Sunday to attend the opening ceremony of the Beijing Winter Olympics and other activities. As China and Argentina celebrate the 50th anniversary of their diplomatic relations this year, the two heads of state agreed to further enhance mutual trust, exchanges and cooperation between the two countries and deepen their comprehensive strategic partnership, according to the statement. China and Argentina established diplomatic ties on February 19, 1972. During Xi's state visit to Argentina in July 2014, the two countries announced a decision to build a comprehensive strategic partnership. To celebrate the 50th anniversary of diplomatic ties, Xi and Fernandez announced the launch of the Year of China-Argentina Friendship and Cooperation, the statement said. The two sides reaffirmed mutual support on issues involving their sovereign interests, it stressed. Argentina reaffirmed its commitment to the one-China principle; China reaffirmed its support for Argentina's demand to fully exercise sovereignty on the Malvinas Islands, and for the resumption of negotiations to resolve the disputes through peaceful means in accordance with relevant resolutions of the United Nations, according to the statement. The two leaders spoke highly of bilateral cooperation on medical and health issues in the joint fight against COVID-19, the statement said. The Chinese and Argentine governments signed a memorandum of understanding on cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative, the statement said. The two sides also agreed to further expand the scale of trade and actively promote investment to each other, it added. The two sides signed cooperation documents in various fields such as green development, the digital economy, space, the BeiDou Navigation Satellite System, scientific and technological innovation, education, agriculture, earth science, public media and nuclear medicine, according to the statement. Argentina proposed setting up a consulate general in Chengdu in southwest China's Sichuan Province, which was welcomed by the Chinese side, it noted. Both sides agreed to further enhance communication and coordination in international affairs to defend their interests and the overall interests of developing countries, it said.