Editor's note: Thomas O. Falk is a London-based political analyst and commentator. He holds a Master of Arts in international relations from the University of Birmingham and specializes in U.S. affairs. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. The European Union is desperately trying to make up for its lack of investments in Africa to counterbalance China's presence on the continent. However, what's been coming from Brussels is more of the same old tune and simply too little, too late. Given the EU's remarks before the recently held summit between the European and the African Union, one had hoped for a genuine statement of intent, a paradigm shift in African-EU relations. Yet, all the summit's final declaration states are Europe's desire for a "renewed partnership" in "peace, security, democracy, prosperity, solidarity and human dignity" for the "joint vision for 2030." If this does not sound like determination, it's because it is not. All in all, 150 billion euros the EU plans to invest on the African continent over the next seven years. It's part of the "Global Gateway" strategy, Europe's plan to compete with China's Belt and Road initiative. Europe has become cognizant that its influence in Africa continues to decline, while China has become the largest trading partner of African governments and a major investor in infrastructure projects such as arenas, highways, railroads, airports, schools and clinics. Particularly during the pandemic, while European investors often lowered commitments, China invested $2.96 billion in 2020, up 9.5 percent from 2019. This trend continued in 2021. But China's influence isn't merely based on investments. China also has supported Africa tremendously in various ways during the pandemic. While Brussels is still unwilling to release its vaccine patents, Chinese President Xi Jinping has not only promised a billion vaccine doses but has pledged to build various health projects in Africa and send 1,500 health experts onto the African continent. Brussels, meantime, has promised "only" 450 million vaccine doses for Africa by summer 2022. But the EU's vision is destined to fail for three reasons in particular. First, no one, not even Brussels, knows, at this stage, where the 150 billion are supposed to come from. Only one thing seems inevitable: It will not be funded entirely via public investments. That means that Brussels must find reliable and suitable investors willing to allocate capital into their fund. Given that, amidst the pandemic, as previously mentioned, European investors had already trimmed down their investments in Africa and often allocated it elsewhere, therefore Brussels faces a tall order here. Second, the EU and China are simply not on a level playing field. On the one hand, the EU is known for its bureaucracy, shockingly slow decision-making progress and a set of values perhaps counterproductive given the circumstances and urgency from a European point of view. Investments from Brussels will inevitably be attached to various stifling conditions regarding "corruption" or "labor standards." On the other hand, China can make decisions on investments almost instantly and will not hassle African governments with such requirements. Put yourself into the position of an African government and consider your choices. Would you prefer Europe's money? Of course not. Third, this is an aspect that is too often forgotten when Europe talks about Africa: African governments no longer trust or are willing to rely on the EU. Too often, promises were made but never kept. For example, it has been only five years since the previous summit, where the EU essentially promised a similar package than it did the last week. China, meanwhile, did very little talking but has always delivered, and Africans are highly aware of it. If the EU were serious about expanding its influence in Africa, it would put its money where its mouth is, besides making the same old promises. Talk is cheap but becomes quite costly when it is not followed by action. It's precisely the experience the EU is currently making in Africa. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com.)