The Hong Kong Exchanges and Clearing (HKEX) reported a 9-percent increase in 2021 net profit, the stock exchange operator said on Thursday. "The HKEX had a strong year in 2021, despite a turbulent macro backdrop and the ongoing pandemic," said the bourse's chief executive Nicolas Aguzin. Aguzin said the HKEX also broke records in cash market turnover and its "stock connect" and "bond connect" programs, which allow international investors to access the Shenzhen and Shanghai markets. On Thursday, the HKEX reported a full-year net profit of HK$12.5 billion ($1.60 billion), up from the 2020s HK$11.51 billion, but smaller than the HK$13.1 billion average of 27 analysts compiled by Refinitiv. This year, the HKEX will be affected by "uncertainty surrounding the pandemic recovery, ongoing geopolitical risks, restrictions on travel and upcoming interest rate hikes," bourse chair Laura Cha said in a statement. In its Thursday annual report, the HKEX also reported a 10-percent increase in core business revenue last year, driven by high trading and clearing fees. The average daily turnover of cash equities rose by 32 percent in 2021. In October, Hong Kong's stock exchange made it easier for international investors to bet on mainland China's futures market, which used to be monopolized by Singapore. Read more: Global investors seek refuge in China as inflation roils other markets In December, the HKEX announced that it would allow the listing of special purpose acquisition companies, a popular investment vehicle, months after Singapore announced the same. Hong Kong Financial Secretary Paul Chan said in his Wednesday budget speech that the city's stock exchange and the Securities and Futures Commission are reviewing listing reforms. The proposed measure is intended to help "large-scale advanced technology enterprises," which require substantial capital for research and development but are not qualified for listing under current rules, Chan said. Read more: Hong Kong to allocate some $6b to curb COVID-19 (With input from agencies)