Apart from the dazzling performances, snowflakes and fireworks, the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics on Friday also witnessed hundreds of athletes from across the world marching into the stadium wearing distinctive winter outfits. All eyes were on what the participating teams were wearing as they made an entrance during the ceremony, with some netizens saying that it resembled watching an international fashion show. China Chinese athletes wore winter gear mainly in the colors of red and white from domestic sportswear brand Anta. The outfit features a knot button and stand collar, while the red line in the middle stands for the central axis of the capital city, meaning the host city will draw together international friends. Renowned Hong Kong designer Timmy Yip is the mastermind behind the uniform. The designs are inspired by traditional Chinese culture and the Chinese character "中" (zhong), the first character of China's name in Chinese. Canada The outfits of the Canadian team made the most-searched topic list during the live broadcast on Weibo, China's equivalent of Twitter. The uniform, manufactured by athletic apparel brand Lululemon, features red color from head to toe, which has definitely given a festive and cheerful atmosphere as the Chinese people were still celebrating the Lunar New Year. The United States The American athletes wore outfits made by Ralph Lauren, an American fashion brand whose relationship with the team began since the 2008 Beijing Olympics. The uniforms for female athletes feature navy blue as the dominant color, while male athlete's clothing is mainly white. The American national flag and the words "USA" are emblazoned on the jackets. Great Britain British clothing brand Ben Sherman has made the official outfit for Team GB for the second time. The British athletes wore navy pea coats over a roll-neck sweater in cream color with a giant Union Flag printed on it. The back of the coat also bears the letters "Great Britain." Japan The sports jackets of Team Japan are dominated by the national flag-inspired color of red from Japanese sports clothing company Descente. The Team Japan emblem, with five Olympic rings and the national flag on it, is inscribed on the outfit. South Korea The American outerwear brand The North Face designed three outfits for South Korean athletes for the Winter Olympics. For the opening ceremony, the bubble jacket draws inspiration from the Taebaek Mountains that form the main ridge of the Korean peninsula. Germany Adidas has continued its relationship with Team Germany with colors of the national flag, red, yellow and black, dominating the uniforms. Italy The Italian delegation wore ponchos with stand-up collars featuring tricolor of the national flag, together with blue trousers, designed by Italian luxury fashion brand Armani. (All photos via CFP) (Cover: Flag bearers speed skater Gao Tingyu and skeleton racer Zhao Dan lead Team China during the opening ceremony of the 2022 Winter Olympics in Beijing, China, February 4, 2022. /CFP )