Yan Jiarong, spokesperson for the Beijing Organising Committee for the 2022 Olympic and Paralympic Winter Games, told CGTN reporter Zheng Yibing in an exclusive interview that the stage for Beijing 2022 has been set. CGTN: The Beijing Winter Olympic Games are approaching; we can see how busy the staff is as they get everything ready. What preparations are being made at this moment? And how do you feel about the upcoming Games? Yan: After over six years of preparation, the stage of Beijing Winter Olympics is all set, and the curtain is about to open. My colleagues and I feel very excited. Beijing is ready, China is ready. Our venues are already completed. All the facilities and equipment have been installed. Experts from both the International Olympic Committee and the International Federations have made multiple visits and they have praised our work. Three Winter Olympic Villages have officially opened. Many athletes have expressed their excitement and appreciation on social media after arriving. They feel safe and comfortable in the Winter Olympic Villages, and they have now started their official training. They speak highly of venue facilities and tracks. We very much look forward to their performance on the field. Some competitions will start before the opening of the Beijing Winter Olympics on February 4, including curling, ice hockey, figure skating and freestyle skiing. My colleagues and I have been preparing for the arrival of the media from all over the world. In order to provide the media with timely and useful material, we've held a number of press conferences and media briefings on a wide range of topics. Some of them take place offline, and some online due to the pandemic. We have more press conferences to come. Last morning (Feb. 1) we have just held one about games preparation and Chinese New Year. Starting from February 5, we will host daily press conferences together with IOC for 15 days. Meanwhile, we will continue to conduct thematic conferences and organize group interviews. As one of the two spokespersons of the Organizing Committee, I look forward to working with the media to experience and capture an unforgettable Winter Olympics. CGTN: The Tokyo Olympics was postponed for one year due to the pandemic, and some major winter sports events in Europe were similarly postponed or canceled. So why did the Beijing Winter Olympics start as planned? Yan: During the preparatory phase of the Beijing Winter Olympics, there were voices questioning the stringency of COVID-19 countermeasures, what's your response? It is very challenging to host the games during the COVID-19 time. You can imagine how difficult it is to continue preparation during 2020 to 2021, when international movement of people and goods were disrupted or even halted. A safe environment for athletes and other stakeholders to compete and work amid a pandemic requires careful planning in all aspects: arrival and departure, transportation, accommodation, and medical care. We classified personnel and design different routes to reduce the risk of virus transmission. At the same time, we separated Olympic personnel from the local community to ensure the safety of the host city and its population. We would never succeed in hosting the Olympic Games without safety. We held the Games as scheduled, not only because we keep our promises and honor our commitment, but also because we have confidence in our ability to carry out the games. Our confidence comes from China's excellent work of COVID-19 prevention and control, which is the prerequisite for the games going forward as planned. The Beijing Olympic Committee, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the International Paralympic Committee have worked closely together to formulate and publish the "Playbooks", which outlines measures based on the latest scientific research and expert opinions including those of the World Health Organization, along with the experiences of other international sports events. IOC President Mr. Bach has repeatedly expressed his firm support for the Beijing Winter Olympics to be held as scheduled. He characterized the closed loop of the Beijing Winter Olympics as a "safe haven" for athletes and "the safest place in the world." This is true. The WHO also believes that the Beijing Winter Olympics will not pose additional risks. Athletes are the stars and main players on the stage of the Winter Olympics. The Organizing Committee is committed to creating a safe and professional platform for athletes to pursue their dreams. How many chances does an athlete have to perform in an Olympic event? If you miss it, you may regret it for the rest of your life. That's why many athletes understand and support the COVID-19 prevention and control measures of the Beijing Winter Olympics. I believe that the success of the Beijing Winter Olympics will show that the Olympic Movement can overcome every challenge, including COVID-19, and that humanity can still celebrate the great reunion, and come together in solidarity through the Olympics in the face of the pandemic. CGTN: Some people have questioned the purpose of China hosting the Winter Olympics. Is it to showcase national power and benefit China itself? Yan: As IOC President Bach said, the Beijing Winter Olympics "will change the landscape of ice and snow sports." Winter sports originated in Europe, and most of the past Winter Olympics have been held in Europe and America. With the economic and social development of countries all over the world, the enthusiasm for ice and snow sports is growing, and the IOC has been promoting winter sports worldwide. Holding the Winter Olympic Games in the world's most populous country with the second largest economy and the third largest landmass will play a huge role in expanding the influence of winter sports in the world and promoting the development of the Olympic cause. Hosting the Winter Olympics will surely benefit the Chinese people. Building a better world through sport is one of the purposes of the Olympics. The IOC advocates that the host cities and countries to improve their infrastructure and environmental quality, create new jobs, and encourage people to lead a healthy lifestyle via Winter Olympic Games. The Beijing Winter Olympics and Paralympic Games will certainly leave a rich Olympic legacy in these areas. CGTN: The Beijing Winter Olympics is the first Winter Olympics to be held under the Olympic motto "Together." How do you interpret the idea of togetherness in the Olympics when there are many divisions, confrontations, and rivalries in the world today? Yan: The ideal of the Olympic Movement is to unite all of humanity in friendship and peace through sport. IOC President Bach said that the Olympic Games are organized to unite the world. The Olympic vision and concept of peace and solidarity are consistent with China's goals of a share future for all mankind. I believe that's why China hosted the Olympic Games in 2008, the Youth Olympic Games in Nanjing in 2014, and the 2022 Winter Olympic Games now. Our slogan for this year's Winter Olympics is "Together for a shared Future," that's the Chinese understanding of Olympic spirit, which is: faster, higher, stronger, and together, with particular emphasis on togetherness under the current world situation. From its origin, the Olympic movement has embodied pursuit of peace, and over the past hundred years, the modern Olympic Games has become a bridge of communication between different peoples, civilizations, and faiths in the world. The decision by the UN to adopt an Olympic Truce Resolution for the Beijing Winter Olympic Games, which was sponsored by China and co-sponsored by 173 Member States, is a concrete step by all countries to build a more peaceful and better world through sport and Olympic ideals. The resolution also showcased the universal support of the international community for the Beijing 2022. At a time when the pandemic is still raging, the Winter Olympics is an extraordinary and joyful global event. It's also an important opportunity to show the resilience, unity, and cooperation of human beings. We will witness the essence and the beauty of sport in the coming days, its passion, struggle, tears, and laughter; it will be a reunion of human beings who respect each other, understand each other, unite, and cooperate and compete fairly. These touching moments will break through the gloom of the global pandemic and give humanity the confidence and strength it needs to realize a better future. Thank you.