The U.S. State Department is waiving sanctions on Iran's civilian nuclear program in a technical step necessary to return to the 2015 nuclear agreement, a senior official said Friday. The resumption of the waiver, ended by the Donald Trump administration in 2020, "would be essential to ensuring Iran's swift compliance" if a new deal on controlling Tehran's nuclear program can be reached in talks in Vienna, the State Department official said. The waiver allows other countries and companies to participate in Iran's civilian nuclear program without triggering U.S. sanctions on them, in the name of promoting safety and on-proliferation. "Absent this sanctions waiver, detailed technical discussions with third parties regarding disposition of stockpiles and other activities of nonproliferation value cannot take place," the official said on condition of anonymity. The waiver covered the conversion of Iran's Arak heavy water research reactor, the provision of enriched uranium for its Tehran Research Reactor and the transfer of spent and scrap reactor fuel abroad. The step came with talks to restore the 2015 Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action, or JCPOA, which Trump unilaterally withdrew from in 2018, at an advanced stage. The Vienna talks, which include Iran, the United States, Britain, China, France, Germany and Russia, are at a key stage where the parties have to make "critical political decisions," a senior U.S. official said last week. "The technical discussions facilitated by the waiver are necessary in the final weeks of JCPOA talks," the State Department official said Friday. But even if a final deal is not reached, the official said, the waiver is important to holding discussions on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, of interest to the entire world. The official insisted that the move was not "part of a quid pro quo," as the partners in the JCPOA talks await Iran's response on key issues. But the senior administration official who briefed reporters on the talks last week said that time was running out, and urged Tehran to make important decisions. "I think we're at the point where some of the most critical political decisions have to be made by all sides," the official said. The official proposed direct talks between Washington and Tehran to focus on the most difficult issues separating the sides. "If our goal is to reach an understanding quickly... the optimal way to do that, in any negotiation, is for the parties that have the most at stake to meet directly," the official said. Read more: China urges more consensus building in Iran nuclear talks Iran says UN voting right 'naturally' restored after membership dues paid (With input from AFP, Reuters)