Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi held a meeting with Mongolian Foreign Minister Batmunkh Battsetseg in Beijing on Saturday. Wang thanked the Mongolian government and people for their "firm support" for China's hosting of the Beijing Winter Olympics, which opened on Friday. China is confident of working with all parties to present a simple, safe and exciting sports event to the world, Wang told Battsetseg. Battsetseg joined Prime Minister Luvsannamsrai Oyun-Erdene at the opening ceremony of the 2022 Winter Olympics. Wang said he believed Oyun-Erdene's visit to China will be a complete success and promote the development of bilateral relations between the two countries. China and Mongolia are important neighbors, Wang noted, adding that the friendly cooperation between them has a solid foundation and broad prospects for development. Calling on the two countries to continue consolidating political mutual trust, Wang said China and Mongolia should respect each other's independence of sovereignty and territorial integrity. The two countries should also support each other in safeguarding their core interests and major concerns and constantly enrich their comprehensive strategic partnership, said Wang in the meeting. Battzezeger wished the Chinese people an auspicious and prosperous Year of the Tiger and congratulated China on successfully hosting the Beijing Winter Olympics as scheduled despite the challenges brought by the pandemic. The Mongolian People's Party and the Communist Party of China celebrated their respective 100-year anniversaries last year, which was of great significance to the two countries, she added. Mongolia will work with China to fully implement the political consensus between the two countries, further align development strategies, advance the construction of the Mongolia-China-Russia Economic Corridor and expand practical cooperation in various fields, said Battzezeger. (Cover: Chinese Foreign Minister Wang Yi (R) meets with Mongolian Foreign Minister Batmunkh Battsetseg in Beijing, China, February 5, 2022. /Chinese Foreign Ministry)