The next week will mark the 50th anniversary of China's diplomatic ties with Mexico and Argentina respectively, and the 58th Munich Security Conference (MSC) will be held amid tensions over Ukraine. Milestones in China's ties with Mexico, Argentina China and Mexico established diplomatic relations on February 14, 1972. The two countries forged a strategic partnership in December 2003 and elevated their ties to a comprehensive strategic partnership in June 2013. China is Mexico's second-largest trading partner, and Mexico is China's second-largest trading partner in Latin America. China and Argentina established diplomatic ties on February 19, 1972. The two countries announced a decision to build a comprehensive strategic partnership in July 2014. In a joint statement released earlier this month, China and Argentina vowed to deepen their comprehensive strategic partnership. The two sides also signed a memorandum of understanding on cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative. Diplomatic efforts to ease Ukraine tensions Russian President Vladimir Putin had phone calls with U.S. President Joe Biden and French President Emmanuel Macron on Saturday amid escalated tensions along the Ukrainian-Russian borders. The Kremlin has repeatedly denied any plan to attack Ukraine and accused the West of fueling tensions. Diplomatic efforts aimed at preventing a conflict will continue in the next week, with German Chancellor Olaf Scholz visiting Kyiv on Monday and Moscow on Tuesday. The Ukraine crisis is also expected to loom large at the annual MSC slated for February 18-20. The MSC, launched in 1963, is a high-profile platform for debates on global security issues. Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi addressed the MSC via video link last year. Day by day Monday: The 50th anniversary of diplomatic ties between China and Mexico; German Chancellor Olaf Scholz visits Ukraine; Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro visits Russia (to February 17); Polish Foreign Minister Zbigniew Rau visits Russia. Tuesday: Scholz visits Russia; NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg gives a news conference ahead of a meeting of NATO defense ministers; the United Nations Security Council meets on Yemen. Wednesday: NATO defense ministers attend a two-day meeting in Brussels (to February 17); foreign ministers of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) meet to discuss humanitarian aid for Myanmar (to February 17); Russian and Brazilian foreign and defense ministers meet in Moscow in the 2+2 format. Thursday: Brussels hosts the European Union – African Union summit (to February 18). Friday: Greek Foreign Minister Nikos Dendias visits Russia; the 58th Munich Security Conference begins (to February 20). Saturday: The 50th anniversary of diplomatic ties between China and Argentina.  Sunday: The Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics concludes.