There are boundless opportunities and huge potential for practical cooperation between China and Mexico, said Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi in a signed article published on Tuesday. February 14 marks the 50th anniversary of the establishment of the diplomatic relations between the two countries. Reviewing the achievements made during the past 50 years, Wang said that the two countries have become good friends who trust each other. Saying that China-Mexico relations have opened a new chapter in history, he highlighted three historical events, the establishment of diplomatic ties in 1972, the establishment of strategic partnership in 2003, and President Xi Jinping's historic visit to Mexico in 2013, during which the two countries elevated bilateral relations to a comprehensive strategic partnership. Looking into the future, Wang said that China looks forward to working with Mexico to promote trade and investment liberalization and facilitation. China welcomes Mexican companies to actively explore the Chinese market and well use the China International Import Expo and other platforms to promote more Mexican exports to China, he added. To expand cooperation in emerging industries such as 5G, electric vehicles, digital economy, healthcare and green development, he said that the two sides should identify their respective geographical and industrial advantages. China is Mexico's second largest trading partner and third largest export destination and bilateral trade has increased by over 7,000 times since the establishment of diplomatic ties, according to Wang. Mexican blueberries, avocados, tequila and beer are increasingly favored by Chinese consumers and bilateral cooperation in transportation, oil and gas, communications and industrial park construction has yielded fruitful results, Wang said. Noting that in the face of the pandemic, global development faces new situations and challenges, he highlighted implementing the Global Development Initiative proposed by Chinese President Xi Jinping. The initiative highlights steering global development toward a new stage of balanced, coordinated and inclusive growth in face of the severe shocks of COVID-19. This is another major public good that China has provided to the international community, Wang said. Both China and Mexico are major developing countries of great influence and China is ready to work with Mexico to implement the initiative and achieve stronger, green and healthy global development, he added. (Cover: File photo of Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi. /China's Foreign Ministry)