An official Russian newspaper on Thursday applauded President Vladimir Putin's interview with China Media Group (CMG) President and Editor-in-Chief Shen Haixiong, which was published earlier the day. In a commentary story, Russian Gazette reported some highlights of the interview. It noted that it came just ahead of Putin's visit to China for the opening ceremony of the Beijing Winter Olympics. It also marked the second time Putin took an interview with Shen. In 2018, they sat down for an exclusive interview at the Kremlin in Moscow, marking the Russian president's first interview with the Chinese media at the presidential residence. "We've always stressed cooperation with our traditionally reliable partners, allies and friends, which, without doubt, includes the People's Republic of China," Putin told Shen during the first interview. The Russian Gazette story noted that the Russian president maintained the same stance during the latest interview with the CMG president. Putin stressed that relations between Russia and China are developing on an equal, de-ideologized basis. "Our partnership is sustainable, intrinsically valuable, not affected by the political climate and not aimed against anyone. It is underpinned by respect, regard for each other's core interests, adherence to international law and the UN Charter." The atmosphere of political trust created has allowed Russia and China to establish a multilayer structure of interstate cooperation, Putin said. The high level of trust in the development of bilateral relations not only can be found between the two countries' leadership but also between the two peoples, said the Russian newspaper, citing a recent poll result. As much as 72.6 percent of Russian respondents and 87 percent of Chinese respondents believed that the two countries should further strengthen comprehensive strategic coordination, according to the poll by the China-Russia Friendship Committee for Peace and Development. More than 91 percent of Russian respondents and more than 98 percent of Chinese respondents were confident and looking forward to further deepening of the bilateral relations, the poll showed. In the interview, Putin also made it clear that Russia opposes the attempts to politicize sport or use it as a tool of coercion, unfair competition, and discrimination. "I firmly believe that the Winter Olympic Games in Beijing will be held to the highest standards," he said. Read more: Putin believes Beijing to host Winter Olympics of highest standards China and Russia should work closely on global affairs: Opinion poll (Cover: Screenshot of the Russian Gazette story)