The Milwaukee Bucks beat the Los Angeles Lakers 131-116 at Crypto.com Arena on Tuesday, scoring over 130 points in three straight games. The last time the two teams met this season, the Bucks won 109-102 at Fiserv Forum after Giannis Antetokounmpo had 47 points, nine rebounds and three assists. The purple and gold missed LeBron James back then. On Tuesday, James was back, together with his Big Three buddies Anthony Davis and Russell Westbrook. Unfortunately, it didn't make much of a difference. Antetokounmpo dropped 44 points, 14 rebounds, eight assists and two blocks for the Bucks on Tuesday night. The game once seemed long-gone as the visiting team scored 99 points in two and a half quarters and led by as many as 30 points. What's even more intimidating than that was Antetokounmpo's efficiency of going 17-20 in field goals (FGs). Imagine how desperate the Lakers' defenders were when they watched the "Greek Freak" continue to drain fadeaways in the middle range and 3-pointers from top of the key. "Obviously when you make shots, the game is a lot easier, looks a lot better," Antetokounmpo said. "I know I'm going to try to get my teammates involved and look for the best way to help the team, but sometimes when you start making shots, you feel better about yourself, you defend better. Today was one of those games." The final result did not look too ugly for the home team only because the Lakers tried desperately to rally in the last quarter. They exploited Antetokounmpo's foul trouble and Bobby Portis' inability of protecting the paint. However, 24-point trail (from the first three quarters) was not that easy to beat, especially when the Lakers defense was not good enough to contain the opponents. "We played a terrible defensive half," Lakers head coach Frank Vogel said. "Disposition, competition, the level of competitive spirit we showed for a big game was very disappointing. Two straight games we started with a terrible defensive half. We've got to get that right." LeBron James and Anthony Davis did their best by combining 49 points, 14 rebounds, 12 assists and three blocks. Malik Monk again was the third-best performing player of the team and contributed 20 points, five assists and three triples. Compared to them, Russell Westbrook again became an offensive liability after shooting at 3-11 in FGs for 10 points, 10 rebounds, five assists and four steals. He was sitting on the bench when his teammates were making their last ditch effort in Q4. "I shouldn't have to hit any benchmarks, to be honest. I put a lot of work in. I got a lot of respect in this game. I earned the right to be in closing lineups. Numbers would say, I don't have to explain that. Like I said, once again, it ain't my decision ... Unfortunately, just gotta go with and figure it out the best I can and be there for my teammates as much as I can and make sure I come into work and do my job," Westbrook said at the post-game press conference. Hot Booker and cold Paul lift Suns over 76ers The Phoenix Suns defeated the Philadelphia 76ers 114-109 at Wells Fargo Center on Tuesday to secure the third consecutive win and continue leading the Western Conference. The Suns entered the last quarter with a one-point deficit (84-83). Deandre Ayton couldn't stop Joel Embiid from dominating the floor, either under the rim or in the middle range. By getting a double-double of 34 points and 12 rebounds, Embiid made legit bid for the NBA Most Valuable Player Award this season. Fortunately for the Suns, they have Devin Booker and Chris Paul to go to for clutch time solutions. Booker only made one FG shot in Q4, but he made eight free throws to get 10 points for the Suns. Paul missed four his six attempts in this quarter, but the two shots he made both happened to extend the Suns' lead. "You're a cold piece of work, CP3," Booker said. "Our goal is what everybody knows it is," Suns head coach Monty Williams said. "But our mission is to do stuff like we did tonight along the way." As compared to the Suns that are far ahead in the Western Conference, the 76ers are facing close competitions in the East. As a result, one game could mean the gap between the leading team and the fifth ranking team. The trade rumors of Ben Simmons are not helpful at all at such crunch for the team. "Whoever wants to play is welcome. If someone wants to play, they're welcome. But we've got guys here that want to be here, that show up every single night," Embiid said. The NBA trade deadline is arriving on Thursday. There are reasons to hold your breath for game-changing deals like Simmons (plus other assets) for James Harden with the Brooklyn Nets. Other games on Tuesday (away teams come first): Indiana Pacers 112-133 Atlanta Hawks Los Angeles Clippers 109-135 Memphis Grizzlies Houston Rockets 97-110 New Orleans Pelicans Detroit Pistons 86-116 Dallas Mavericks New York Knicks 115-132 Denver Nuggets Orlando Magic 113-95 Portland Trail Blazers Minnesota Timberwolves 134-114 Sacramento Kings