Anti-epidemic supplies provided by China were flown to Kiribati's capital Tarawa on Wednesday to help the South Pacific island country cope with the COVID-19 pandemic. The medical supplies, transported by a chartered plane, include oximeters, monitors, electrocardiographs, ultrasonic diagnostic systems, masks and personal protective equipment (PPE), according to the Chinese Embassy in Kiribati. Chinese Ambassador to Kiribati Tang Songgen said these supplies highlighted the deep friendship between the Chinese government and people and the Kiribati government and people. China will always stand together with Kiribati in the fight against COVID-19 and will continue to strengthen the bilateral cooperation in pandemic control and public health. Another batch of anti-COVID-19 supplies will be shipped to Kiribati in the near future. Kiribati Minister of Health and Medical Services Tinte Itinteang thanked the Chinese side for providing the supplies, which the island country is in urgent need of. He expects the two countries to further enhance cooperation in anti-pandemic effort and public health. According to the World Health Organization, from January 3, 2020, to February 22 this year, 2,847 COVID-19 cases have been confirmed with 11 deaths in Kiribati. This is not the first time that China has helped a South Pacific island country deal with the pandemic. Last Friday, a new batch of anti-epidemic supplies provided by the Chinese government arrived in the Solomon Islands. The supplies included oxygen generators, oximeters, protective suits and over 300,000 test kits. Chinese Ambassador to the Solomon Islands Li Ming said at the time that China is willing to further strengthen its cooperation and exchanges with the Solomon Islands in all areas in a bid to promote a better future for the bilateral relationship. Solomon Islands Minister for Health and Medical Services Culwick Togamana expressed gratitude for the Chinese government and people. He said the timely-donated test kits would be dispersed to hospitals, area health centers, post aides and other rural institutions throughout the country. All these medical consignments are essential resources that will increase the country's capacity and capability to deal with the pandemic, he said. (With input from Xinhua)