China is a relative newcomer to ski jumping, but with several athletes competing in the sport at the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics and with its own National Ski Jumping Center now in Zhangjiakou, there are hopes that it might one day become the sport's second Asian nation alongside Japan. "I'm sure there will be more athletes competing here in the future because China is doing its utmost to develop ski jumping," Dong Bing, one of two Chinese athletes who took part in the women's normal hill event on Saturday, told reporters. Neither she nor her compatriot Peng Qingyue qualified for the final round of competition. But that was not foremost on their minds. Peng, 17, has been jumping competitively since January 2020 at FIS Cup level and has yet to reach the World Cup. Dong, also 17, entered the World Cup this season, even finishing 21st in Klingenthal, Germany, in December. On the men's side, Song Qiwu, 20, has been competing in FIS Cup events since last July. Not yet vying for medals, the Chinese athletes were keen to concentrate on their individual performances and learn from this experience performing alongside the world's best. "I just think about what technical moves I should do, it doesn't matter what result I get at the end... I'll try to do my best and play to my strengths," said Dong. "I think I performed well today. Although I was not in good shape at the opening training, I was not nervous today and I performed at my normal level," added Peng, who described the feeling of freedom when she was soaring through the air. "I will keep on ski jumping and hope that one day I can reach the top level and win glory for my country," she added, citing Slovenia's Nika Kriznar, who went on to claim bronze on the normal hill, as her idol. Traditionally, ski jumping has been dominated by European nations, as well as Japan. Competitions are also held mainly in those countries, which have the infrastructure and competition venues. But asked if China could become a second Asian powerhouse, Dong was confident: "I'm sure it will!" "Our country is a late starter in ski jumping, but as long as we play to our full potential, we are not worse than other strong countries," added Peng. Speaking of the National Ski Jumping Center in Zhangjiakou, which has received praise from the world's top ski jumpers in recent days, she said: "The Snow Ruyi will definitely be hosting more competitions." Germany's Katharina Althaus, who claimed a second Olympic silver in the women's normal hill event on Saturday after Pyeongchang in 2018, was in any case keen on more ski jumping competitions in Asia. "Asia seems to suit me! I think I had my first World Cup podium in Asia (in Sapporo in 2017)," she said. "I like coming here, it feels good." (Reporting from Zhangjiakou)