The water town of Lili is located in the intersection between China's modern metropolis Shanghai and ancient city Suzhou. With a history of nearly 900 years, Lili has the typical "Jiangnan style" architecture and lifestyle. One of the common sights and sounds in Lili during the festive season is a folk song called "Luxu Shange," which was listed as an intangible cultural heritage in China in 2006. Singers using the local Wujiang dialect sing about everyday lives, legends and even children's songs, but mostly about love and romance. Every year when it comes to Spring Festival, Qian Jianhong and his partner Zhao Yuhua come to Lili to perform. He has been a folk song singer for more than two decades. "We sing in the Suzhou and Wujiang dialects, which we've inherited from over 2,500 years ago. This is a folk song for the Lili Ancient Town, which is a local highlight," said Qian. The singers usually sing on a boat. While boating from the east end to the west, their folk songs attract tourists on the shore to stop by and listen to their beautiful performance. In terms of taste, a popular snack is "youdunzi," deep-fried cakes with pork filling. The cake looks like a gold jackpot, which is a symbol of wealth and prosperity. Thus "Youdunzi" is a "must-eat" snack during the Spring Festival in Lili. One popular "Youdunzi" shop in town called "Feng Ji You Dun" sometimes sells more than 2,000 pieces a day. Wang Qiong, the owner of the shop, says people come to buy the snack for good fortune. "The god of wealth arrives on the fifth day of the Lunar New Year. These round, golden pieces are like blocks of gold for a good jackpot," said Wang. Other celebrations for new year in Lili include opera performances and traditional stringed and woodwind instruments. The preservation of architecture, customs and lifestyle in Lili has attracted tourists for years. In 2022, due to COVID-19 travel restrictions, most visitors came from nearby cities in the Yangtze River Delta region. Officials say the town has welcomed more than 10,000 tourists every day so far this year. The water town of Lili is not commercialized – there are still some 4,000 residents living there. Driving from Shanghai’s city center to Lili takes about one hour, and entrance tickets are free. (Cover image: Lili water town locates in Wujiang City, east China's Jiangsu Province. /CGTN)