Chinese President Xi Jinping on Saturday said China is willing to continuously work with Tajikistan to push for new progress in China-Tajikistan relations. Xi, who made the remarks during his meeting with Tajik President Emomali Rahmon in Beijing, said that in the past 30 years since the establishment of diplomatic relations, the two countries have achieved rapid development of bilateral relations and reached a new height in their comprehensive strategic partnership. Calling Tajikistan an iron-clad friend of China, Xi noted that Tajikistan was the first country in the world to sign cooperation agreements with China under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI) and the two countries have taken the lead in establishing a development community and a security community. The unbreakable political mutual trust and strong mutual support are the most valuable experience of China-Tajikistan relations that have been strengthened over time, he added. The Chinese president stressed that China firmly supports the Tajik side in safeguarding national independence, sovereignty and security, and supports the people of Tajikistan in achieving the development goals. Xi called for promoting the alignment of the two countries' development strategies, earnestly implementing the economic and trade cooperation plans of the two countries and enhancing cooperation in green energy, digital economy, e-commerce, and other fields. China is willing to expand the import of high-quality agricultural products from Tajikistan, Xi said, adding that China will continue to provide support and assistance to the Tajik side in its fight against the COVID-19 pandemic. He also told the Tajik president that China is willing to work with Tajikistan and other Central Asian countries to strengthen counter-terrorism cooperation, jointly address the challenges and maintain peace and tranquility in the region. Rahmon, on his part, said China is Tajikistan's good neighbor, good friend and good partner. Further deepening the friendly and cooperative relations between the two sides were, are and will be the top priority in diplomatic direction for Tajikistan, he added. The Tajik president also said his country is willing to actively participate in the BRI cooperation and promote cooperation in various fields such as trade, industry, energy and infrastructure under this framework. The Tajik side hopes to strengthen communication and coordination with the Chinese side in international and regional affairs and jointly maintain regional security and stability, he added. Rahmon is among the 30-plus world leaders and heads of international organizations who traveled to the Chinese capital for the opening ceremony of the Beijing Winter Olympics. He congratulated China for successfully holding the opening ceremony on Friday night.