Russian forces took control of the shuttered Chernobyl nuclear power plant, which is some 130 km north of Kyiv, according to Ukrainian presidential adviser Mykhailo Podolyak. "After a fierce battle, our control over the Chernobyl site has been lost," Podoliak said. The condition of the plant's facilities, confinement and storage of nuclear waste is unknown, according to him. There has been no public comment on the battle from the Russian side. The Exclusion Zone of Chernobyl, a 32 km radius around the plant, lies between the Belarus-Ukraine border and the Ukrainian capital, and remains largely devoid of life 36 years after a catastrophic nuclear accident in 1986. Worst nuclear disaster The Chernobyl nuclear plant witnessed one of the worst nuclear accidents in human history in 1986, both in cost and casualty. On the night of April 26 that year, the No. 4 reactor at the power plant exploded and caught fire, spewing radioactive material high into the sky and sending clouds of nuclear material across much of Europe in the following days. The three other reactors at the plant were all shut down by 2000 and it has since been decommissioned. Radiation levels in the area reportedly remain dangerously high since the 1986 leak in then-Soviet Ukraine. More than 30 years have passed since the accident and nuclear safety experts still have not cleaned everything up, Claire Corkhill, a radioactive waste materials professor from the University of Sheffield, told the BBC, adding that "it's easily another 50-year program." She has worked as part of the international clean-up effort at Chernobyl during the past six years, and even visited the site three times. In 2017, the building containing the exploded reactor was covered by an enormous 32,000-tonne dome shelter, in a bid to contain radiation still leaking from it. The shelter cost $1.5 billion, which was funded by more than 30 countries, according to Corkhill. Robots were sent inside the shelter to demolish the broken reactor and gather up the radioactive waste. The dismantling work is reportedly not expected to be finished until 2064, and Ukraine has decided to use the deserted site to store spent fuel from other nuclear power plants in the country. After an eponymous HBO mini-series in 2019, the site became a tourist attraction. It was closed to tourists a week before the Russian military operation.