The Dallas Mavericks defeated the Golden State Warriors 107-101 at Chase Center on Sunday after overcoming 21-point deficit, the biggest of the team this season. The Mavericks dominated the floor 33-13 in the fourth quarter, including driving a 26-1 run in around eight minutes. Luka Doncic and Spencer Dinwiddie had nine and 10 points respectively for the Mavericks in this quarter. The Warriors managed to contain Doncic's orchestrating, limiting him to only two assists with nine turnovers. However, as a result, they watched him drop 34 points after shooting 11 for 12 at the free throw line. "We wanted to continue to have fight," Dinwiddie said after draining two 3-pointers in the last quarter. The game went as smooth as silk for the Warriors in the first three quarters. They were 34 for 70 in field goals (FGs) and 9 for 28 in 3-pointers. Stephen Curry had 22 points and nine assists. Andrew Wiggins got 15 points. Kevon Looney scored eight points, 10 rebounds, five assists and three steals. Then came the nightmare fourth quarter during which the whole team of the Warriors seemed to have suffered blackout. They took too many unreasonable attempts on offense. Defensively, the Warriors allowed too many easy baskets under the rim and open 3-pointers outside. "We did not maintain our grit down the stretch," Warriors head coach Steve Kerr said. "We just let our momentum get away from us." Though his team continued to lack Draymond Green and Andre Iguodala, two key members of the franchise, especially on defensive front, Kerr didn't use that as an excuse for the loss. "We can't just say, 'Oh well, when Draymond [Green] and Andre [Iguodala] get back we will be better.' It doesn't matter who's out there. We've got to get better executing under pressure and maintaining competence," Kerr added. "We got to figure out how to maintain our energy when the shots aren't falling," Curry said. " Because, that's what it might be like in a playoff game ... So I'd like to say it was a good lesson to learn, even though it sucks to have to go through it." Is this sign for Lakers to give up? The New Orleans Pelicans beat the Los Angeles Lakers 123-95 at Crypto.com Arena on Sunday to secure their second straight win. The Pelicans managed to maximize their advantage in athleticism and energy by committing 16 steals and 12 offensive rebounds and led 26-12 in fast break points. Six of their players reached double-digit points, led by 22 of C.J. McCollum who made team-high four triples for the team. Brandon Ingram had a struggling night shooting jumpers, but he delivered eight assists. "A great way to start (coming out of the All-Star break) is to get these two wins," Pelicans head coach Willie Green said. By contrast, the purple and gold had one of their worst-performing games after committing 21 turnovers in the first three quarters and making only seven 3-pointers for the whole game. LeBron James dropped 32 points, reaching 500 in 30+points game of his career. However, 11 of his points happened in the last quarter when the game was long gone. He also shared team-high seven turnovers with Russell Westbrook. The two combined only four assists. This was not the lowest scoring game for the Lakers. Nor did they make the fewest triples on Sunday night. What should really concern the team, however, was the lack of fighting will in most of the players on the court. A lot of their turnovers happened because players who didn't hold the ball dragged their feet in the game. Similar slow movement on defense allowed many open 3-pointers for the Pelicans. "I don't have an answer for tonight. They went into Phoenix, beat them, and obviously beat the doors off us today," James said. "Teams are coming in and playing harder. I believe that's their scouting report – just play harder than them and see what happens. And it's working," Westbrook said. "We have to have the determination that's not going to happen on our home floor or it is going to continue to happen to us." The Pelicans (25-36) rose to 10th in the Western Conference after Sunday's win while the Lakers (27-33) remain ninth but see their trail behind the eighth Los Angeles Clippers grow to 3.5 games. If the regular season is over now, the Lakers will meet the Pelicans first in the play-in tournament. The gap between the two teams is only 2.5 games, which are not impossible to wipe with more than 20 games to go. Other games on Sunday (away teams come first): Philadelphia 76ers 125-109 New York Knicks Utah Jazz 118-114 Phoenix Suns Boston Celtics 107-128 Indiana Pacers Detroit Pistons 127-126 Charlotte Hornets Los Angeles Clippers 99-98 Houston Rockets Denver Nuggets 124-92 Portland Trail Blazers