French President Emmanuel Macron spoke with U.S. President Joe Biden and, in a separate call, with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Sunday amid Western fears that Russia is planning to "invade" Ukraine, which Moscow denies. Biden and Macron discussed in a phone call on Sunday the "ongoing diplomacy and deterrence efforts in response to Russia's military buildup on the borders of Ukraine," the White House said in a statement. Biden was canceling a trip to Delaware and remaining in Washington following a two-hour meeting of his National Security Council on the escalating tensions in Ukraine on Sunday to discuss "the latest developments regarding Russia's military buildup on the borders of Ukraine," the statement said. Meanwhile, the Elysee presidential office in the French capital said that Macron had a phone call with his Russian counterpart Putin on Sunday. Macron and Putin agreed to resume work within the framework of the Normandy format on the basis of the exchanges and proposals made by Ukraine in recent days, and to enable a meeting of the trilateral contact group to be held in the next few hours with the aim of obtaining "a commitment to a ceasefire" from all the stakeholders, according to the Elysee. They also agreed on the need to favor a diplomatic solution to the current crisis and "to do everything to achieve it," adding that French Minister for Europe and Foreign Affairs Jean-Yves Le Drian will meet his Russian counterpart Sergei Lavrov in the coming days and several consultations will be held in Paris. "The diplomatic work should make it possible to progress on the basis of the latest exchanges by involving all the stakeholders ... in order to achieve, if the conditions are met, a meeting at the highest level to define a new order of peace and security in Europe," said the press release. Meanwhile, Biden and Putin agreed in principle to hold a summit on the Ukraine crisis, according to the French presidential office. "The substance will have to be prepared by (U.S.) Secretary Blinken and (Russian Foreign) Minister Lavrov during their meeting on Thursday, February 24," the Elysee Palace said. The White House also confirmed on Sunday that Biden has accepted in principle a summit with Putin over the Ukraine crisis after the two countries' foreign ministers meet next week. Macron also spoke to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy by telephone over the weekend. "President Zelenskyy has confirmed his determination to not react to the provocations and to respect the ceasefire," the Elysee said in another press release. On Saturday, France urged all its nationals currently in Ukraine to leave the country and advised citizens to postpone their trip to the country. The U.S. Embassy in Russia cautioned Americans on Sunday to have evacuation plans, drawing a rebuke from Russian Foreign Ministry. Maria Zakharova, Russia's foreign ministry spokeswoman, questioned if the United States had passed on the information about attacks to Russia. "And if not, how is one to understand all of this?" Zakharova asked. (With input from agencies)