Chinese President Xi Jinping met with Pakistani Prime Minister Imran Khan in Beijing on Sunday, calling for more efforts to strengthen bilateral strategic cooperation. China and Pakistan marked the 70th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic relations last year, Xi noted, hailing the strong ties and momentum in bilateral cooperation. China is ready to work with the Pakistani government to jointly build a closer China-Pakistan community with a shared future in the new era, so as to bring greater well-being for peoples in both countries and provide more impetus for regional cooperation and stability, Xi said. The president also highlighted the significance of China-Pakistan strategic relations, saying that the two countries should further strengthen economic cooperation, regional connectivity and cooperation in fighting terrorism. He also voiced support to the Pakistani government's defense of independence, sovereignty and dignity, as well as its efforts to combat terrorism. Xi said China upholds fairness and justice in international affairs. He stressed that the Chinese people will not create trouble but are not afraid of it, and that China is capable and confident of safeguarding its national sovereignty, security and development interests. China is willing to strengthen coordination and cooperation with Pakistan in international affairs and jointly maintain world and regional peace and stability, he added. For his part, Khan congratulated China on the successful opening ceremony of the Winter Olympics. The prime minister also expressed appreciation for China's great support for Pakistan to contain the COVID-19 pandemic, saying the vaccines provided by China have saved not only the lives of the Pakistani people but also the country's economy. He said Pakistan and China are all-weather friends and Pakistan will always firmly support China in its core interests. Khan also expressed Pakistan's readiness to promote the construction of the second phase of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor, and strengthen cooperation in various areas such as industry, agriculture and technology. He added that Pakistan is willing to strengthen communication and coordination with China on regional issues such as Afghanistan in order to maintain regional security and stability.