Chief Executive of China's Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) Carrie Lam said on Tuesday she did not plan to impose a citywide lockdown to curb a recent COVID-19 outbreak, but acknowledged that next month's chief executive election faces the possibility of being postponed. For the past two weeks, Hong Kong has struggled to contain an outbreak that has deteriorated swiftly. Daily infections have surged by about 20 times and Lam said local authorities are unable to keep pace with their testing and isolation mandate. She said the SAR government's response to the outbreak had not been satisfactory, with hospitals and medical staff overwhelmed. "There are no plans for a widespread city lockdown," Lam said, but reiterated her "dynamic zero" coronavirus strategy. "We cannot surrender to the virus. This is not an option." Health authorities reported on Tuesday 1,619 infections, a case count slightly smaller than the record 2,071 infections recorded a day earlier. Asked whether the chief executive election, set for March 27, would go ahead, Lam said that the plans were unchanged, but given "the severity and speed of this latest wave" the situation would be continuously reviewed. "So, I cannot preclude any possibilities at this moment," she said. The HKSAR has had strict COVID-19 measures in place ever since the pandemic first erupted. Most venues from churches to schools and gyms remain shut, while public gatherings of more than two people are banned. Dining in restaurants is not allowed after 6 p.m. Hong Kong will introduce a vaccine pass starting February 24 where residents will have to show proof of vaccination before entering restaurants, supermarkets and shopping malls. Face-to-face classes in schools will be suspended until at least March 6, the government said on Monday. As cases soar, the Chinese mainland has said it would help the region boost its testing, treatment and quarantine capacity, and secure resources from rapid antigen kits and protective gear to fresh vegetables. Lam said the central government would deliver over 100 million testing kits to the region. The SAR government is also recruiting more cross-border truck drivers to ensure vegetable supply from the mainland. Despite the latest surge, deaths remain far less than in similar-sized cities since the pandemic erupted two years ago. Hong Kong's total caseload since the pandemic first erupted is around 26,000 infections, including a little over 200 deaths. Anticipating the need for more isolation facilities, Lam said around 3,000 public housing units and around 10,000 hotel rooms would be converted. (With input from Reuters)