Editor's note: "Natural Facts – Q&A" is a special series that answers questions on natural conditions involving winter sports. In this episode, China Meteorological Administration explains the role wind plays in ski jumping. Ski jumping has a long history and was first contested in Norway 210 years ago. Simply speaking, the competition score is based on the distance and the style, and the wind plays an important part during the whole process. Q: What kind of wind is best for the skier? A: There are certain requirements for the wind speed during the competition. Generally speaking, a speed below 4 m/s is optimal for the competitor's performance. While airborne, the wind speed and direction shall not have big changes, hence it requires high measurements for the wind. At China's National Ski Jumping Center, also known as the Snow Ruyi, automatic weather stations have been set up to monitor the newest wind data. Q: Can a jumper get a high score with the help of wind? A: The wind direction is an important factor affecting the score as a tailwind pushes the competitor to the ground faster, while a headwind gives a longer lift. To give the outdoor competition a fair scoring system, wind points are introduced. Take the PyeongChang 2018 as an example. Ski jumpers from both Poland and Germany reached an identical distance of 134.5 meters, but as the German had a stronger tailwind than the Polish he gained a higher score as his take-off jump was more difficult. Q: What is the famous V-style? A: In 1985, Swedish ski jumper Jan Bokloev spread his skis into a "V" shape, a refined jump technique to maximize the air lift, but it wasn't fancied by other skiers at that time. He persisted with the technique and won the 1989 ski jumping world championships. Later, the V-style was adopted by most ski jumpers around the world. Q: How does the V-style work? A: Ski jumping is similar to gliding, which depends on the air against its lifting surfaces. A study showed that the V-style improved air lift by 28 percent compared to the classic styles. With the V-style, the lift area values are higher than those for the classic style, and the jumper can remain in the air for a longer period of time. As well as increasing the height, the style also slows down on the landing which is safer for the jumper. (Cover image designed by CGTN's Feng Yuan) (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at nature@cgtn.com.)