Editor's note: "Natural Facts – Q&A" is a special series that answers questions on natural conditions involving winter sports. In this episode, China Meteorological Administration sheds light on the importance of snow conditions. When talking about skiing, most of the time we concentrate on the athlete's skills instead of the importance of snow conditions. If the snow is not "right," falls and crashes become more frequent. So what do we need to look for? Let's see what the China Meteorological Administration (CMA) has to say about it. Q: What is the difference between artificial and natural snow? A: Man-made snow is made up of particles of solid ice, which is wetter, denser and harder as compared to natural snow, and its snowpacks are more compact. Skiing on it feels like gliding on sand or carpet. It is suitable for beginners. Most of the ski resorts use artificial snow, and they need to mend the terrain at night after the resort closes. Meanwhile, the natural trail on a mountain slope or in woods is formed by natural snowfall. As the snowpacks decompress, it becomes harder to ski on thick snow. If the snow on the trail is too fluffy, the skis easily get stuck in snow, causing accidents due to a sudden stop or rollover. However, experienced skiers enjoy the challenge! Q: What is the best time to ski? A: The snow conditions change as the day progresses. In early morning, the snow is more like crystals. There is less friction between the skis and the snow, hence the speed of skiing can be very fast which requires the skiers to have certain control. After 10 a.m., as the temperature rises, the surface of the snowpack slowly melts and becomes powdery. It is the best time to ski as the trail won't be too soft or too hard. In the afternoon, the snow turns into slush. The increased friction is good for beginners who need to learn how to master control. As for the experienced, they can just wax the skis to reduce drag. (Cover image designed by CGTN's Feng Yuan) (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at nature@cgtn.com.)