The Los Angeles Rams defeated the Cincinnati Bengals 23-20 in Super Bowl LVI at SoFi Stadium on Sunday to win their first Super Bowl title since moving to LA in 2016. This was the second time for the Rams to hold the Vince Lombardi Trophy in their hands. They first did it in 2000 when they were still the St Louis Rams. The victory on Sunday made the franchise the third team in league history to win two Super Bowls being located in two different cities. The other two are the Colts (Baltimore and Indianapolis) and the Raiders (Oakland and Los Angeles). The Rams also became the second team to secure the NFL top honor at home after the Tampa Bay Buccaneers in 2021. Rams quarterback (QB) Matthew Stafford completed 26 of his 40 passes for 283 yards, three touchdowns (TDs) and two interceptions. He only began to taste playoff victory from this season and then he went all along to pocket the final win. "That's hard work, that's hours together," Stafford said. "I just thank coach (Sean McVay) for putting it ... 'Hey, Matthew, you and Coop go get this thing done.' He kept calling plays for him, kept finding ways to get him the ball. He made unbelievable plays; that's what he does." Rams wide receiver Cooper Kupp, who was connected with Stafford eight times for 92 yards and two TDs, was named the Super Bowl LVI MVP. "I just don't have words," Kupp said. "I'm just so thankful for everyone." On the other side of the field, Bengals second-year QB Joe Burrow was also in his first postseason journey and reached Super Bowl in the end. He passed at 22-33 for 263 yards and one TD, but was also sacked record seven times by Aaron Donald and Von Miller. "You got to be relentless," Donald said. "You want something bad enough you've got to go get it. You know it was right in front of us ... all offseason you work, you train, you got camp, you got a long season just for this one game. You know we the last team standing." It has been no secret that the Bengals provided Burrow with very disappointing protection in their offensive possessions. The poor young man was sacked a record 51 times in the regular season. Many had expected him to have a really hard time facing Donald and Miller on Sunday. However, Burrow wasn't sacked at all in the first half of the game, partly because the Rams didn’t have to do so. Their wide receivers, Kupp and Odell Beckham Jr (OBJ) were threatening enough to give the Bengals a headache. OBJ had two catches for 52 yards and the team's first TD. However, the first turning point of the game happened when OBJ had to leave the field due to injury. His absence almost paralyzed the Rams' offense, especially when they could barely achieve anything by rushing (23 times for 43 yards). Moreover, the Bengals began to find loopholes on the Rams' defensive line. Joe Mixon kept causing trouble by working on the ground while he even passed for the team's first TD. The Bengals led 20-13 after Evan McPherson scored his second field goal at 10:19 in the third quarter. Fortunately for the Rams, the deficit was no bigger than one TD, they could still score via field goal, and most importantly, their defensive aces Miller and Donald finally began to their job – putting Burrow down. The seven sacks Burrow suffered cost the Bengals 43 yards. The team had 1:25 to rally after Kupp scored the game-changing TD and put the Rams back on top 23-20. But Donald held the victory tight in the Rams' hands by containing Samaje Perine at 3rd & 1 down and sacking Burrow at 4th & 1 down. "We have to let if fuel us," Burrow said after the game. "We are going to at least celebrate what we did this year." "These playoff games weren't easy," Bengals head coach Zac Taylor said. "And even beyond that, we had some tough games and our guys proved that they can do a lot of great in those situations and put us in these moments. And you just have to continue to build off that."