China supports the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO) and the European Union (EU) to restart a security dialogue with Russia, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Saturday. Wang made the remarks when he talked over phone with German Foreign Minister Annalena Baerbock about the ongoing situation in Ukraine. He said China supports the resumption of such talks among the related parties to seek the building of a balanced, effective and sustainable European security mechanism and achieve a long-term stability on the European continent. Noting that the Cold War was over long ago, Wang said it is necessary for NATO to reconsider its positioning and responsibilities, and the Cold-War mentality based on bloc confrontation should be "completely" abandoned. He said China is highly concerned about the situation in Ukraine, and supports all efforts that are conducive to de-escalation and a political solution. When it comes to European security issues, legitimate concerns of all countries should be taken seriously, Wang said, adding that Russia's legitimate security demands should be addressed properly, given five consecutive rounds of NATO's expansion eastward. China does not agree to solve problems through sanctions, and objects unilateral sanctions that have no basis in international law, he said. Sanctions will not only cause a "lose-lose" or "multiple-lose" scenario economically, but also hinder the process of political settlement, Wang explained. He reiterated that China, as a permanent member of the United Nations Security Council, always fulfills its responsibility to maintain international peace and security. If the Security Council takes action, it should be helpful for a political solution to the current crisis, instead of provoking new confrontation, Wang said, adding that was why China had prevented references of authorization of force and sanctions in a draft resolution over Ukraine. "China will continue to play a constructive role in seeking peace and realizing peace." (Cover: File photo of Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi. /Chinese Foreign Ministry)