Editor's note: The Russian Armed Forces have attacked multiple locations since Russian President Vladimir Putin authorized "a special military operation" in Donbas on February 24 morning. However, Moscow expressed its willingness to talk with Kyiv with a focus on obtaining a guarantee of neutral status and non-deployment of offensive weapons in Ukraine. Lidiia Zhgyr, a Ukrainian who graduated from Schwarzman College in Tsinghua University, shares her view on the Ukraine crisis. The opinions expressed in the video are his own and not necessarily the views of CGTN. 1. The United States has provided military aid to Kyiv but refused to send troops into Ukraine. What are the U.S. considerations for its present behavior? How will the situation in Ukraine develop? Lidiia Zhgyr: In my opinion, it has never been Biden's plan to send military troops to Ukraine to support. And he actually never promised to send troops, and none of that NATO countries had ever promised to do that. We have seen spotted sanctions, chosen sanctions which are acceptable by the West. Biden will not bring American troops to Ukraine, and the most that, you know, that NATO countries will do would be bringing NATO troops along the western border of Ukraine and Poland and maybe Lithuania, which is bordering Russia, to protect the security of NATO countries. And for the United States, we all know that the United States never involved in fight, in the war with strong opponents, maybe only in the end and for particular individual goals. They will condemn, be deeply concerned, send humanitarian support. We have seen it for eight years. It's not the new situation, and I must admit we are not panicking right now because there were instant instances in Ukrainian history where it had already happened. It's not an option to see the Western world standing by and calling for peace without actually doing anything for the peace. However, when the situation evolves in the direction of the truce, that might be the time when Western leaders will step in and try to mediate the peace negotiations, but it is still quite far-fetched. 2. Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy said his country had been "left alone" to fight Russia. He had contacted 27 leaders of European countries, and none of them had directly responded to Ukraine's request to join NATO. Do you have any comments? Lidiia Zhgyr: Neither me nor Ukrainians are surprised by this reaction of NATO countries individually and probably altogether. The emergency summit of NATO, I would like to bring to your notice the very name of this meeting, which is called emergency summit, and it's happening on the second day of the war in the center of Europe. Yes, we have been left alone, but we have been left alone in our home, which is good news. All around Ukraine, our army forces are doing an immense job; right now, they are standing strong, nobody's giving up. I have never felt such unity in my country before because Ukraine is quite divided by political views, by language question, by determination to pursue West or East. So we are left alone, but we are united, and we are not afraid. 3. As a Ukrainian in China, how do you feel after the crisis breakout? Lidiia Zhgyr: Judging from the outcry and from the reactions to the news that I see in my surroundings in the Chinese media, there is a big share of the population which feels the pain of the Ukrainian people and hopes that peace prevails. I want to say thank you for the support to all the people from China who have been flooding my WeChat with messages of support, love and good wishes to Ukraine. I am extremely grateful for the understanding and the love which lives in the hearts of Chinese people. Thank you for the support, and let's stay united in this hell. Thank you very much. Interviewer: Zhao Jingzhu Managing editors: Yang Chuchu, Zhao Jingzhu Video editor: Feng Ran Producer: Bi Jianlu Supervisor: Mei Yan (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com)