Editor's note: Fiona Sim is a London-based freelance political commentator and public sector worker. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. With a nationwide COVID-19 death toll of 919,000 and counting, it should come as no surprise that the United States Government Accountability Office (GAO)'s latest report to Congress on the COVID-19 pandemic continues to highlight horrendous deficiencies in federal and state responses. What's more concerning is that the study reveals a gaping hole in the capabilities of the country to manage future potential pandemics and/or climate-related natural disasters. Testing kits The GAO report itself calls back to inadequacies highlighted in its September 2020 report regarding the need to ensure sufficient COVID-19 testing supplies and strategies. Two years since the first case of COVID-19 was discovered in the U.S., and it seems very little has changed. The report states that the Department of Health and Human Services has five major deficiencies. One of them being their inability to use its funding: the Department has thus far only spent $16 billion of the $58 billion it allocated for testing-related activities, as of November 2021, leaving 72 percent unspent. Who is responsible for implementing testing strategies and procuring equipment – and why are they not doing their job? It is hard to believe there has been anything more important than ensuring robust testing and tracing functionalities over the past two years, yet the data shows a distinct absence of urgency. Only in January 2022 have Congress announced plans to distribute one billion rapid testing kits for free to people's homes. This seems hardly commendable so late in the game, especially given the American population is 300 million strong. There have already been criticisms of the distribution system, which limits each household to four tests; for households of four or more, this makes the scheme redundant and limits some poorer families to have the ability to conduct a rapid home test just once. Food and nutrition The GAO report has highlighted that it is failing to feed and nourish the poorest in the nation despite having the base infrastructure in place to do so. The Food and Nutrition Service "does not have a comprehensive strategy for how its programs should respond to emergencies" despite being in year three of the pandemic, meaning that states were often competing for limited food resources and leaving millions hungry due to "challenges to data timelines." Bureaucracy should not be an excuse to let the most vulnerable in society suffer, yet in the supposed land of freedom and democracy, hunger was at the mercy of poor planning and slow response times. The Food and Nutrition Service also acknowledged that "the pandemic disproportionately affected food insecurity for people of non-white races and ethnicities." The trend of inefficient bureaucracy increasing racial inequality doesn't stop with food. The report revealed that Tribal governments – there are 574 federally recognized tribes of indigenous peoples across the U.S. – have been eligible for various funding pots such as the Coronavirus Relief Fund, which seeks to benefit the most economically, socially disadvantaged; However, the Treasury faced "various challenges that slowed the distribution of funds." The GAO's latest report notes persistent gaps in race and ethnicity data for COVID-19 cases, deaths, and hospitalizations which have been flagged since September 2020. This has not been resolved, and recommendations include the standardized aggregation of COVID-related data at county, state and federal levels. From the policing to the food distribution, it would seem structural, systemic racism is embedded into every facet of American infrastructure. The reality of the GAO report The true extent of the U.S.' failures in pandemic control continues to remain hidden from the public. It is no mistake that the mainstream media is currently filled with fear-mongering about foreign countries, whether it's rumors of a Russian invasion of Ukraine or U.S. Congress making proposals to fund $500 million into negative news coverage of China. It is all a distraction from the country's own internal problems and the grievances of the American population bubbling under the surface. Throughout the 238-page document, the lack of transparency and accountability is a recurring theme. If this report were about any other country, no doubt the U.S. would be the first to make statements about poor governance, corruption, and a lack of democracy being the root of all ills. With the latest approval ratings of U.S. Congress at a lowly 23 percent, there has not been a more apt time to call the legitimacy and competence of the U.S. government into question The Biden Administration is forming a plan for "the end of the 'full-blown' pandemic" with the support of the Center for Disease Control and Prevention. The plan is predicted to call an end to mask mandates and curbing already lenient social restrictions. When the U.S. reached 100,000 COVID-19 deaths, Biden shamed the Trump Administration for reaching a milestone that could have been avoided. With the total expected to reach one million deaths in just a few weeks' time, it seems that he will be eating his words. It is truly harrowing to consider just how many millions more may succumb to COVID-19 under Biden's watch. Rather than redirecting every resource and reserve to combat COVID-19, which the GAO report has recommended, the U.S. government remains resolutely more concerned with maintaining its global hegemony than it is with saving the lives of its own people. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com.)