The Chinese national para ice hockey team finished their first adaptive training session ahead of the 2022 Winter Paralympic Games at the National Indoor Stadium in Beijing on Saturday. As the host of the 2022 Winter Paralympics, China will send a young franchise with an average age of 26 years to make debut in the para ice hockey event. Their opponents at the Paralympics will be Italy, Slovakia and the Czech Republic. "They were built earlier than we were and had more game experience," Xu Jinqiang of Team China said. "But our advantage is that our players have excellent team-work. We are happy and excited to play at home. We will fight until the last second against every opponent. We have a strong country behind us and our families support us." Having suffered fractures in previous competitions overseas, Xu spent a lot of time both recovering and finding his form back. As a 32-year-old veteran, he has more to overcome to go back to the rink. "It's such a significant opportunity (to attend the 2022 Winter Paralympics). I'm willing to take the challenge," Xu said. China's forward Yu Jing will make history by becoming the only female player in the para ice hockey event at the 2022 Winter Paralympics. She looks forward to showing her best at the top stage for para-athletes. Yu said she had been interested in sports since she was a kid. "I enjoy the happiness from my passion, love and will fight on the pinch," she said. "No one's life is all smooth sailing. If you build enough confidence and optimism, they will give you strength in difficult times." Yu said by standing at this top stage, she wants to help more people with disabilities join sports, pick up their confidence and taste the joy of sports. The team was built from nothing in 2017 and it took them less than four years to get promoted to world's Group A and secure qualification for the 2022 Winter Paralympics. From Russia to Germany and then to Canada, the Chinese team has played over 100 games and are ready for the forthcoming Paralympic Games.