A Chinese envoy said Thursday that the settlement of the Ukraine issue must return to the implementation of the new Minsk agreements. Zhang Jun, China's permanent representative to the United Nations, elaborated on his country's position on the current situation at a briefing on Ukraine at the UN Security Council. He said the Minsk agreements are recognized by all as a fundamental and binding political document for the settlement of the Ukraine issue and deserve complete and effective implementation by all parties concerned. Regrettably, the majority of the agreements' provisions have yet to be truly implemented, he said, and new ceasefire violations have reportedly occurred on the lines of contact. Aimed at a peaceful settlement to conflicts in eastern Ukraine, the new Minsk agreements, officially the 2015 Package of Measures for the Implementation of the Minsk Agreements, were endorsed by Security Council Resolution 2202 on February 12, 2015, in Minsk, Belarus. China hopes that all parties concerned will take a constructive attitude, resolve through dialogue and consultation whatever differences that may arise in the implementation of the package, and draw up a roadmap and timetable for implementation without delay to pave the way for a political solution to the Ukraine crisis, Zhang said. He said, in the current context, all parties concerned should let reason prevail, adhere to the general direction of a political solution and refrain from any act that may provoke tensions or hype up the crisis. The parties should fully consider each other's legitimate security concerns, and show mutual respect, and on such a basis, properly resolve their differences through consultations on equal footing, he said. "China supports all efforts conducive to easing the tensions and notes the recent diplomatic engagement between Russia and France, Germany and other European countries at the leaders' level," Zhang said. "A negotiated, balanced, effective and sustainable European security mechanism will serve as a solid foundation for lasting peace and stability across Europe. We trust that European countries will take decisions with strategic autonomy in line with their own interests." Zhang added that China supports the UN secretary-general's good offices aimed at reducing tensions. Read more: China: Spreading false information won't help resolve the Ukraine situation Live updates: Russia pulls back some troops from near Ukraine (Cover: File of Zhang Jun, China's permanent representative to the United Nations. /CFP)