The Utah Jazz beat the Golden State Warriors 111-85 at Vivint Arena on Wednesday to secure their fourth straight win. Only three of the Jazz's 89 field goal (FG) attempts happened in the middle range on Wednesday night. The team carried the "magic ball theory" to the end, shooting 51 times from downtown and 35 times in the paint. Though the team's 17-51 3-point shooting efficiency was not as good as their scoring performance in the paint (24-35), the Jazz still managed to defend their home court. "We really did a lot of special things out there. And I think we just continued to play as a group and continued to lock in with communication," Donovan Michell said. "We found ways to make winning plays." Compared with their flat and plain offense, the Jazz defense played a bigger role in ending the Warriors' nine-game winning-streak. Coach Quin Snyder still kept a big man, either Udoka Azubuike or Hassan Whiteside, on the floor in most of the time. Their job was to shut all Warriors out of the Jazz's paint. In the end, Whiteside delivered seven blocks, including five in the first half, and grabbed five offensive rebounds for the Jazz. The Jazz refused to let the opponents feel comfortable in the perimeter too. As Klay Thompson, Draymond Green and Andre Iguodala all sat on Wednesday's game, Stephen Curry faced much more defensive pressure. Every time he tried to dribble and launch offense, at least two, sometimes three defenders would stop at nothing to go around the screen and trap Curry. Though Curry made three triples to get 16 points for the Warriors, he was frozen as badly as the general offense of his team. Jordan Poole, Andrew Wiggins and Otto Porter Jr. didn’t have what it takes to make a difference for the Warriors on offense. "We did a really good job containing the ball. A lot of that had to do with guys off the ball just really shifting into a good position to help and that helped us defend cutters. And then that helped us on the glass," Snyder said. "They were pretty aggressive all night trying to run us off the 3-point line." Curry said. "That was a snowball of missing shots and then giving up 3s on the other end. Especially on the road, you're not going to win many games like that and you're going to get blown out." Sabonis makes Sacramento debut with a double-double The Sacramento Kings defeated the Minnesota Timberwolves 132-119 at Golden 1 Center on Wednesday, getting revenge for Tuesday's loss to the same opponents at home. Domantas Sabonis, who cost the Kings a lot to acquire, scored a double-double of 22 points and 14 rebounds with five assists and five offensive rebounds. 15 of his 18 FG attempts took place under the rim and he made nine of them. "It's been a crazy 36 hours since we found out," Sabonis said. "I feel like this is a fresh start for me. It's going to be exciting. I want to be here. The fans were amazing tonight. Today was a great day." Since both Tyrese Haliburton and Buddy Hield were gone, Davion Mitchell was given longer time on the court and a bigger role, especially in playmaking. He exploited it well on Wednesday night, going 7-12 in FGs and 3-6 in 3-pointers to get 18 points, seven rebounds and seven assists. If Davion Mitchell continues to play like this, he can at least give the Kings a backup plan when they realize it's a mistake to keep De'Aaron Fox. The Timberwolves watched their three-headed monster, Karl-Anthony Towns, D'Angelo Russell and Anthony Edwards combine 76 points, 12 rebounds and 19 assists on Wednesday. However, only one of their teammates reached double-digit points. "Hopefully it gets our attention," Timberwolves head coach Chris Finch said. "We've been scoring the ball so easily. Tonight we didn't get our bench production that we had been getting. We didn't get to the free-throw line. Our defense was under that much more pressure." The Kings are 21-36 after Wednesday's victory, 2.5 games away from the 10th New Orleans Pelicans, who are in direct competition with them for the chance to participate in the play-in tournament. Other games on Wednesday (away teams come first): San Antonio Spurs 92-105 Cleveland Cavaliers Chicago Bulls 121-109 Charlotte Hornets Toronto Raptors 117-98 Oklahoma City Thunder Los Angeles Lakers 105-107 Portland Trail Blazers