Editor's note: Song Fang is a lecturer at the Institute for International Strategic Studies in the Party School of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. Chinese President Xi Jinping met with Russian President Vladimir Putin in Beijing on February 4, 2022. For China and Russia, the meeting is not only of overall and strategic significance but also reached practical cooperation agreements, promoting the further deepening of the China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership of coordination. The strategic nature of China-Russia relations has never been more prominent, attracting worldwide attention. One of the important outcomes of the meeting was the issuance of a joint statement that reflects the highly consistent position of Russia and China on major international issues. The world has entered a period of turbulence and change due to the interwoven impact of the centennial changes and the pandemic. Both countries practice true multilateralism, promote democracy in international relations and achieve world peace, stability and sustainable development. The joint statement clearly stated the two powers' views on democracy, development, security and order, pushing back against Western hegemonic discourse by clarifying political ideas such as "democracy," "human rights" and "multilateralism." The joint statement also made it clear that the new type of state-to-state relationship between China and Russia has gone beyond the military and political alliance model of the Cold War era. There is no limit to China-Russia friendship and no forbidden area for China-Russia cooperation. The second important outcome of the meeting is the signing of a series of cooperation documents between China and Russia, which cover cooperation in areas such as anti-monopoly law enforcement and competition policy, sustainable development, health and quarantine, sports exchanges, global satellite navigation system, oil and gas, and informatization and digitalization. They are of major concern to both sides. China and Russia are economically interdependent. China is Russia's largest economic and trade partner. The latest statistics show that China-Russia bilateral trade in 2021 hit a record high of $140 billion. In the context of a sluggish global economy, it's truly remarkable that China and Russia have made such achievements in trade and economic cooperation. On this basis, a series of new cooperation agreements further consolidate China and Russia's all-around cooperation. Strategically China and Russia need each other. The world today is marked by changes unseen in a century, and China is moving to the center of the world stage. China faces pressures from the United States, which makes its relationship with Russia important. At the same time, with the increasing pressure from the West, developing its relationship with China is also essential for Russia. Deepening cooperation with China may be the most effective way for Russia to deal with Western sanctions. Putin's visit to China has three main objectives. The first is to support the Beijing Winter Olympics. Some Western countries have repeatedly slandered China on the so-called human rights issue and announced that they would not send official and diplomatic representatives to the Beijing Winter Olympics in an attempt to politicize sports and obstruct the normal holding of the Beijing Winter Olympics. In sharp contrast to these countries, Putin was the first foreign leader to explicitly declare his intention to attend the Beijing Winter Olympics. His remarks once again conveyed to the world the particularity of China-Russia relations. Both China and Russia oppose the politicization of sports and abide by the Olympic spirit of equality and justice. The second is to exchange views with Beijing on world affairs. The situation in Ukraine is on the verge of boiling over. A war between Russia and Ukraine could break out at any time. The United States already has thousands of troops around Ukraine ready to join the fight against Russia. The current Ukraine crisis is another big issue for geopolitical competition between the West and Russia caused by the enlargement of NATO. The sensitivity of Ukraine's geography makes any event that could alter its character highly likely to alter the geopolitical landscape. Russia hopes China will back it in the face of Western pressure. The third is strengthening China-Russia relations. China and Russia are currently discussing the possibility of building a new natural gas pipeline to China via Mongolia, the China-Russia Natural Gas Western Route. As for China-Russia joint financial infrastructure, the aim is to deepen China-Russia cooperation in the energy sector. In the wake of the current Ukraine crisis, U.S. officials are threatening the toughest possible sanctions against Russia. It is urgent and necessary for Russia to deepen cooperation with China. A number of economic, military and infrastructure cooperation projects will greatly reduce the pressure Russia is facing. China and Russia see each other as a strategic counterweight to the United States and share many common interests. Mutual assistance between China and Russia will effectively balance the United States and defuse the strategic pressure that the strengthening of the transatlantic alliance may bring to China and Russia. The China-Russia comprehensive strategic partnership is one of the most pivotal elements of stability in contemporary international relations. The two treat one another as equals and with the respect they deserve. The relationship has also injected stability into today's uncertain world. China and Russia should step up coordination and cooperation in international affairs, show great generosity, and act as major powers in fighting the epidemic, boosting the economy and tackling climate change, among other pressing issues that the international community is anxious to address. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com.)