He holds the record for most World Cup starts by a ski jumper. He competed in eight Winter Olympics from 1992 to 2018, winning silver with the Japanese team in 1994 in Nagano, then individual silver and team bronze in Sochi in 2014. He took part in 13 world championships over his stellar career and has been a beloved figure for athletes and fans of ski jumping worldwide. The word "legend" barely begins to describe Noriaki Kasai. Officially still an active ski jumper, the 49-year-old is at the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics in a different capacity – as a commentator for Fuji TV. But if he had it his way, he would be up there on the hill starting with competitors who weren't even born when he won his first World Cup in Harrachov, the Czech Republic, 30 years ago. "Of course, I would have liked to take part in this ski jumping event," Kasai told CGTN, when we ran into him in the Media Lounge at the National Ski Jumping Centre in Zhangjiakou, north China on Friday. "I regret that I can't take part, it would have been my ninth Olympics. But I wish all the athletes best of luck and hopefully a successful event with the ski jumping," he said. "The jump seems really difficult," the veteran of 569 World Cup competitions – including 17 wins and 63 podiums – said of the venue. He knows many of the athletes competing for medals this weekend, as he came up against them for years in various competitions, and he is rooting for them. "As an old man, I would, of course, like to see the older jumpers succeed – Ammann, Stoch," he said with his characteristic toothy grin. Not unlike Kasai, Swiss jumper Simon Ammann has been on the circuit for what seems like donkey's years, having burst onto the scene as a fresh-faced 20-year-old to grab double Olympic golds in Salt Lake City in 2002, and then repeating the feat eight years later in Vancouver. Kamil Stoch of Poland is a triple Olympic gold medalist from Sochi and Pyeongchang, but is also competing against athletes who are 10 years younger. Asked for predictions, Kasai joked, "You're putting me on the spot!" but then admitted he was rooting for his compatriots. "I have big expectations for Ryoyu Kobayashi... He has a chance of a gold medal.” "But there's also a lot of potential in the young ones. I'm looking forward to seeing how all the athletes perform," he said. (Reporting from Zhangjiakou)