"I just feel quite emotional," said Riccardo Re when, near the end of an insightful conversation about the Beijing 2022 and Milan-Cortina 2026 Winter Games, I asked him about the role of the Olympics amid a relentless pandemic. The true cost of the human tragedy of COVID-19 is beyond calculation two years into an unprecedented crisis that turns the world upside down, but Re, a senior anchor of Sky Italia's sports coverage, is sanguine about the significance of the Beijing Games as a unifying force. "Sport is contributing to the recovery from the coronavirus and the Beijing Olympics would bring everyone together for an uplifting event. It will help us learn that we need more solidarity and people across the globe should believe and trust each other. At the end of the day, we are all part of a community," observed Re. The Italian veteran, who has plied his trade in the sports industry for over a decade, still recalled the state of euphoria in Turin in 2006 and the undulating passion in London in 2012, and he singled out Beijing 2022 for its flawless preparation for the upcoming spectacle despite increased COVID-19 restrictions. "Everything is working absolutely well. The coordination is good. The mask-wearing and daily testing is efficient and well-planned," beamed Re. "While many challenges still lie ahead, I'm convinced that the Beijing organizers will deliver and show what can be done in the face of adversity." Despite all the obstacles, playing host to the Winter Olympics has spurred a boom in winter sports in many parts of China, with the government leading the efforts in building state-of-the-art ice skating facilities and ski resorts. Re pointed out that Beijing 2022 will go a long way in turning China into a winter sports destination as the global snow sports industry shifts their attention to the Middle Kingdom. "Personally speaking, I'm really curious about the skiing experience in China," said Re. "Due to Beijing 2008, many of us in Europe only associated China with summer sports. But as Beijing becomes the first city in Olympic history to host both Summer and Winter Olympics, I'm pretty sure China would see more foreign visitors flocking to its ski resorts." As all eyes are now on Beijing for the opening ceremony of the 2022 Olympics on Friday, Re has set sights on the conclusion of the showpiece event. "I will mark my calendars for the closing ceremony because Beijing will hand over the Olympic flag to my hometown Milan, who will jointly host the Winter Games in 2026 alongside Cortina d'Ampezzo," said Re. "In the context of Olympics, the two cities have been linked together, and the 2022 Winter Games will offer a great opportunity for Milan to learn and seek advice from the Beijing organizers." Last year, China and Italy agreed on a series of initiatives aimed at mutual support for the 2022 and 2026 Winter Games. In the coming weeks, a team led by Italian Olympic Committee president Giovanni Malago will be scattered across three main clusters of Beijing, Yanqing, and Zhangjiakou to observe how the Olympics are organized. "We failed to win the bid for the 2024 Summer Olympics years ago, but now our dream to bring Olympics back to Italy is coming true," smiled Re. "This opportunity is hard to come by, and we will cherish it. With Beijing 2022 opening on Friday, we will no doubt be watching closely." (Reporting from Yanqing competition zone)