China has lodged solemn representations with the government of Canada over Prime Minister Justin Trudeau's statement politicizing sports, a Chinese Embassy spokesperson in Ottawa has said, adding that any attempt to interfere with the Winter Olympics is doomed to failure. Mr. Trudeau released a statement on the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics, cheering Canadian athletes while expressing serious concern about reports of so-called human rights violations in China. The statement on so-called human rights violations in China is politicizing sports blatantly based on lies and false information, violating the Olympic Charter, especially the principle of "political neutrality in sports," the spokesperson of the Chinese Embassy in Canada said in remarks on the embassy's official website on Friday that expressed strong dissatisfaction and firm opposition to Trudeau's comments. The Chinese people are in the best position to judge China's human rights condition, the spokesperson said. China has created the remarkable miracle in respecting and protecting human rights and blazed a path of human rights development with Chinese characteristics, bringing tangible benefits to the Chinese people. Taking northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region as an example, human rights in the region have been well protected. At present, Xinjiang has enjoyed a stable and improved social situation, quality economic development, complete victory on poverty elimination, much better living standards, a more consolidated ethnic unity and religious harmony, said the remarks. However, the human rights condition in Canada is very poor, the spokesperson said. Historically, Canada imposed genocide on so-called boarding schools hosting aborigines. Till today, the aborigines in Canada are living in terrible conditions and systematic ethnic discrimination is serious in Canada. "How is Canada qualified to point fingers at other countries' human rights conditions?" The spokesperson asked. Certain politicians and media in Canada are constantly hyping Xinjiang-related issues, maliciously spreading rumors and lies. Such actions have no bottom line, no reason and no basis, said the spokesperson. They cannot change the prosperity and development of Xinjiang and the happy life of its people of different ethnic groups, nor can they hinder the region's smooth progress. "I would like to emphasize that Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics is a big event for Winter Olympics athletes and ice sports enthusiasts worldwide, not a platform for political posturing and manipulation." A successful and wonderful Winter Olympics need concerted efforts from the Winter Olympics families, not the presence of "diplomatic representatives" from individual countries. "A handful of Western countries, including Canada, have repeatedly made an issue of the Winter Olympics and engaged in political manipulation in an attempt to disrupt the smooth proceeding of the Beijing Winter Olympics. Their actions are unpopular and doomed to failure," the spokesperson said. "The Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics officially kicked off with a successful opening ceremony on Friday night. I believe under the guidance of the Olympic spirit and with the joint efforts of all parties, China will surely deliver a simple, safe and wonderful Olympic Games to the world," said the spokesperson. (Cover: Fireworks display at the opening ceremony of the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics at the National Stadium in Beijing, China, February 4, 2022. /CFP)