Editor's note: Anthony Moretti is an associate professor at the Department of Communication and Organizational Leadership at Robert Morris University. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily those of CGTN. Canada is not thought of around the world as the place where angry protests happen. And perhaps especially in the winter, when bitter cold settles in for months across almost the entirety of the nation, does it seem likely Canada will be at the epicenter of unrest. But that is not the case right now. There is a different kind of bitter unfolding in Canada, and it serves as the latest reminder that people in Western nations remain in two distinct camps when it comes to how best to handle the coronavirus pandemic. One camp believes that what is best for society is more important than the wants of any individual. The other camp is certain that what "I" want is more important than what "we" might need. Multiple semi-truck drivers are making it clear they believe their rights trump society's needs. Such drivers typically deliver food and other essential items all across Canada (as they do throughout the world). Those truckers are instead delivering grief at the moment, and there is no sign they intend to stop, despite the pleas of top Canadian officials. Dubbed the "Freedom Convoy," truck drivers late last month began descending upon Canada's capital city, Ottawa, and some of the major bridges that link the U.S. with Canada to protest vaccine mandates. Both countries require any truck driver who crosses the border to be fully vaccinated. Many truckers see that as an infringement on their freedom. Demonstrating the selfishness that is too often evident throughout the West, these drivers are choosing to disrupt lives, curtail trade and threaten the well-being of thousands of innocent people in order to make their point. For example, on February 8, truckers again blocked the Ambassador Bridge, which connects the Canadian city of Windsor with the U.S. city of Detroit, preventing both commercial and passenger vehicles from getting through. Meanwhile, in Ottawa, photos of the drivers playing hockey in the middle of major streets have galvanized public opinion; as you might guess, people on the right are offering support for the truckers while people on the left are seething. Their anger was heightened when images of protesters urinating on the National War Memorial and dancing on the Tomb of the Unknown Soldier spread; the memorial and the tomb are two of Canada's most revered sites. Ottawa's mayor has declared a state of emergency, but the reality is he is helpless to put an end to the blockade. Much like the country's prime minister, the mayor can do little more but beg the protesters to head home and allow for normal traffic, delivery and economic patterns to resume. At least for now, "Freedom Convoy" participants are not listening. There is evidence that conservative politicians in the U.S. are interfering in the internal affairs of another country. (Should you really be surprised?) Former U.S. President Donald Trump called Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau a "far left lunatic" for supporting vaccine mandates. Meanwhile, the governor of Florida and the attorney general of Texas – both of whom have made no secret in the past that they support Trump – showed a tendency to investigate the popular fundraising site GoFundMe after it chose to freeze nearly $8 million that had been raised in support of the truckers. Justifiably, Canadian officials have told the Americans to mind their own business. Meanwhile, the Washington Post reported that similar anti-vaccine protests are unfolding in at least two other countries. According to the newspaper, "participants of the 'Convoy to Canberra' spent last week demonstrating against Australia's vaccine mandates." Police in the capital warned residents on February 7 that protest activities may increase this week and disrupt traffic and public spaces. A similarly inspired convoy of cars and camper vans blocked streets around the New Zealand parliament building on February 8. And rallies are being organized in Europe, as opponents to public health measures rush to plan in various Telegram channels. We cannot ignore the rather bland language used by Western media to describe what is taking place in Canada and elsewhere. While Chinese officials are accused of employing "draconian" measures in an effort to rein in the spread of coronavirus, truckers in three Western countries are not labeled with such negative language even though their actions are intentionally disrupting business and providing drivers with monumental headaches. How is it that China's leaders seek to do the right thing but be characterized in negative terms while selfish truck drivers seek to do the wrong thing but avoid negative descriptions? We know that answer: anti-China bias. The intensity of the protests taking place in Canada might wind down in the coming days. But even if it does, the truckers have provided a powerful reminder that the debate between being selfless and selfish, much like the pandemic, will not end anytime soon. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com.)