In the coming week, the Two Sessions, the major event of the Chinese political calendar, will take place in Beijing while Russia and Ukraine are plunging deeper into the mire of military conflict, sending shock waves across the world. China's Two Sessions in spotlight China's top legislature, the National People's Congress (NPC), is to open its annual session on March 5 and the country's top political advisory body – the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC) – will kick off on March 4. They are collectively known as the Two Sessions. As a window to observe China's development and an embodiment of Chinese democracy, the Two Sessions cover China's essential economic and social development plans, drawing worldwide attention. The suggested agenda of the annual session includes reviewing the government work report and examining the report on the implementation of the annual plan on national economic and social development for 2021, and the draft plan on national economic and social development for 2022. Lawmakers are also expected to deliberate a draft amendment to the Organic Law of the Local People's Congresses and Local People's Governments, a draft decision of the fifth session of the 13th NPC on the number of deputies to the 14th NPC and their election, two draft methods for the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (SAR) and the Macao SAR to elect their deputies to the 14th NPC. They will also review the work reports of the NPC Standing Committee, the Supreme People's Court and the Supreme People's Procuratorate. Eyes on potential talks amid Russia-Ukraine conflicts As the military conflict between Russia and Ukraine continues to intensify, both sides have expressed willingness to talk with each other to solve the crisis through dialogue. The Kremlin on Sunday said it has warned Ukraine that Russia's military operation would be suspended during any potential talks, the Interfax news agency reported. Russia earlier said its delegation was ready to meet Ukrainian officials in the Belarusian city of Gomel. Ukraine wants only "real" negotiations with Russia over its military offensive, without ultimatums, Reuters reported, citing an adviser to Ukrainian President Volodymyr Zelenskyy on Sunday. Meanwhile, Russian Defense Ministry spokesman Igor Konashenkov said on Sunday that the Russian Armed Forces have destroyed 975 Ukrainian military infrastructure objects since the start of operations, while the Kyiv City State Administration said in a statement that Kyiv is still under the control of Ukrainian forces as of Sunday morning.UN Secretary-General Antonio Guterres promised on Saturday to provide more humanitarian assistance to the Ukrainian people during a phone call with Zelenskyy. In an email, Stephane Dujarric, spokesman for the secretary-general, told reporters that because of the escalating situation in Ukraine, Guterres will not travel to Geneva as planned. Instead, "he will send a video message to Monday's meeting of the Human Rights Council," he added. Day by day Monday: The 49th regular session of the Human Rights Council (to April 1) takes place in Geneva.Tuesday: U.S. President Joe Biden delivers his State of the Union address to the Congress,Wednesday & Thursday: Quiet days in politics.Friday: The fifth session of the 13th CPPCC National Committee opens in Beijing.Saturday: The fifth annual session of the 13th NPC starts in Beijing. Sunday: Iraq's parliament holds a session to elect a new president.