China's free skier Gu Ailing took the silver in the women's freeski slopestyle event in Zhangjiakou, north China on Tuesday, continuing her medal-winning streak at the Beijing 2022 Winter Olympics, following her big air triumph last week. Ailing delivered a strong third run to score 86.23 points at Genting Snow Park. But it wasn't enough to top Switzerland's Mathilde Gremaud, who after a failed first run came out strong to score 86.56 points on her second, for the gold. Kelly Sildaru of Estonia, the leader after the first jump, took the bronze. All athletes did three runs in the final, with their best one counting towards the final result. Eighteen-year-old superstar Gu had gone into these Olympics, her first, targeting three golds in as many disciplines: women's freesski big air, slopestyle and halfpipe. She took gold in big air at the Shougang venue in Beijing last week, pipping France's Tess Ledeux with a stunning double cork 1620 in her final run. Read more: Gu qualifies for women's free ski slopestyle after delay Her performance on Tuesday left her just short of a second gold, but it still sets her up nicely to best her tally at world championships last year, when she won golds in halfpipe and big air, and bronzed in slopestyle. The women's freeski halfpipe competition will take place on Friday at Genting Snow Park. For Gremaud, who won the slopestyle silver in Pyeongchang 2018 and the big air bronze at Beijing 2022 last week, Tuesday's gold finally completed her set of Olympic medals which came in the most unlikely way after she scored a mere 1.10 points and finished last in the field after a disastrous first run. As the first athlete heading into the second run however, she showed what she was capable of nailing the ramps and jumps to take the top score. Sildaru, who was leading after the first run, was unable to top that and in the end, had to settle for the third place. Big air world champion Anastasia Tatalina of Russia delivered an impressive double cork 1440 near the end but a less than clean earlier jump put her in the 4th place.