The total audience of the China Media Group (CMG) 2022 Spring Festival Gala reached a record 1.296 billion at home and abroad, with 7.133 billion touches on CMG's multiple platforms, the national broadcaster said on Tuesday. The audience size was 1.14 billion last year. On January 31, Chinese New Year's Eve, more than 650 media outlets from over 170 countries and regions worldwide carried live coverage of the gala. CGTN's multilingual coverage received 148 million views worldwide, and over 71.029 million viewers watched the gala live from overseas, doubling last year's. Ninety topics related to the Spring Festival Gala were trending on Chinese social media platforms, with 69 billion people having participated in the gala's interactive activities as of Tuesday. CNN and BBC launched special sections about the Chinese Spring Festival on their websites to introduce the festival culture and traditional customs to overseas audiences. BBC World News and the corporation's new media platform aired the gala promo, reaching over 25 million viewers. The promotional videos of the gala broadcast on CNN platforms have reached 408 million viewers worldwide as of Tuesday.Alma TV, regarded as Italy's leading national television channel, broadcast the gala live for the first time, reached 25 million households in Italy. The program was also aired for the first time on Canada's Xinflix Media and Charming China online channel, attracting 220,000 views. The gala was broadcast on Niconico, a Japanese video platform, with 124,000 views, up 27.8 percent year on year, setting the record for the highest live broadcast of the program in Japanese. In Africa, 60,000 viewers watched the gala live on local networks. This year, the world's tallest building Burj Khalifa, the largest Ferris wheel in Africa, the Eye of Kenya and other landmark buildings around the world had light shows themed by the Spring Festival gala, allowing global viewers to share the warm and festive vibe of the Chinese New Year together.