Russian President Vladimir Putin held telephone conversations with leaders of France, India and Iran, following the start of Russia's "special military operation" in Ukraine, the Kremlin said on Thursday. Putin on Thursday authorized a "special military operation" in the Donbas region, and Ukraine confirmed that military targets across the country were under attack. 'Serious and frank' conversation between Putin, Macron Putin and French President Emmanuel Macron had a "serious and frank" exchange of views on the situation around Ukraine, according to the Kremlin. The Russian leader gave "comprehensive explanations of the reasons and circumstances for the decision to conduct a special military operation," the Kremlin said. Macron demanded Putin immediately cease military operations in Ukraine, the Elysee palace said. The French president told Putin that he exposed himself to "massive sanctions." Modi calls for 'immediate cessation of violence' Putin also briefed Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi about Moscow's stance on the Ukraine issue.   "When discussing the situation, Putin outlined his fundamental assessments of Kyiv's aggressive actions against the civilian population of Donbas, as well as about Kyiv's many years of destructive policy aimed at breaking the Minsk agreements," the Kremlin said.   Modi thanked Putin for the clarification and asked for assistance in ensuring the security of Indian citizens currently in Ukraine. The Indian prime minister called for an "immediate cessation of violence," Modi's office said in a statement.   "(Modi) reiterated his long-standing conviction that the differences between Russia and the NATO group can only be resolved through honest and sincere dialogue," the statement said. Modi "called for concerted efforts from all sides to return to the path of diplomatic negotiations and dialogue," it added. Raisi: NATO expansion is 'serious threat' to region's security In his phone call with Putin, Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi expressed understanding with respect to Russia's security concerns caused by the destabilizing actions of the United States and NATO, according to Kremlin. Raisi said NATO's expansion was a "serious threat" to the region's security and stability, Iran's semi-official Nour News reported. "NATO's expansion eastward creates tension and is a serious threat to the stability and security of independent states in various areas," Raisi was quoted saying. "I hope what is happening will benefit peoples and the entire region," he said. Read more: China understands Russia's legitimate security concerns, Wang tells LavrovChina calls on all parties to exercise restraint over Ukraine crisis(With input from agencies)