Already-qualified Germany recorded a comfortable 3-0 win over Finland in their final Group B clash at the Women's Euro 2022 on Saturday, making it three victories from three games as they continue their bid to win a record ninth title. Germany imposed their dominance from the opening seconds, with striker Alexandra Popp having their first attempt inside a minute, but Anna Signeul's Finland side defended well and had some luck to avoid their opponents taking an early lead. Germany's well-deserved breakthrough arrived five minutes before halftime when defender Sophia Kleinherne headed home a precise cross from the right by midfielder Giulia Gwinn. The Group B winners doubled the lead three minutes into the second half with another header as captain Popp became the first German to score in all three Euro group stage games. Norway suffered a shock exit from the tournament as the pre-tournament title contenders crashed to a 1-0 defeat against Austria on Friday. Despite the presence of Lyon star Ada Hegerberg in their line-up, former European champions Norway paid the price for another lackluster display in Brighton. Norway failed to advance from Group A after a second successive loss, while Austria progressed to the quarterfinals as runners-up behind England. Needing a victory to move above Austria in their final group match, Norway were pushed towards elimination after 37 minutes when Nicole Billa headed in Verena Hanshaw's cross. "We had higher belief in ourselves than to be out of the tournament this soon. So of course, I feel totally empty," Norway manager Martin Sjogren said. Former Women's Ballon d'Or winner Hegerberg added: "Everyone has a responsibility in this, myself included." "There has to be a brutal honesty in evaluating everything that's happened in the last few weeks in order to actually bounce back from this. It's almost that I want to apologize because of all the support we've got." Spain set up a quarterfinal meeting with England after Marta Cardona's late goal secured a 1-0 win over Denmark on Saturday. England, already assured of topping the group, crushed Northern Ireland 5-0 in their last game to move into the last eight with three successive wins and without conceding a single goal. La Roja were made to endure a nervous night at the Brentford Community Stadium until Cadona's 89th minute looping header made sure of their place in the last eight. (Cover: Linda Dallmann of Germany (L) and Anna Westerlund of Finland battle for the ball during their Women's Euro 2022 match at Stadium MK in Milton Keynes, England, July 16, 2022. /CFP (With input from agencies)