Chinese forward Zhang Zhenlin made his NBA Summer League debut in Las Vegas on Friday, scoring three points and one rebound for the Phoenix Suns against the Los Angeles Lakers. Though he only received less than three minutes at the end of the final quarter of Friday's game, Zhang spared no effort the moment he stepped onto the court. "No matter how much or little time I get, as long as I get to play, I want to show what I can do and help the team win," Zhang said in an interview with Xinhua News Agency. Having won the Chinese Basketball Association (CBA) Championship with the Liaoning Flying Leopards last season, Zhang flew to the U.S. to fight for a spot in the NBA this summer and joined the Suns for the Summer League. "I spent some time on special training programs after arriving in the States while communicating with several NBA teams," Zhang said. "I hope I can get more opportunities here to improve myself, so I can make better contributions for the national team." Zhang said he has achieved a lot in the training camps where he practiced with All-Star players, including Jayson Tatum, Bradley Beal and Joel Embiid. The Summer League has been a stage for rookies to meet their fans and unemployed players to find jobs. That's one of the reasons that Zhang didn't receive too much time in his first game. "No matter how capable you are, you have to seek your role in the team," Zhang told Xinhua. "My role is to show my value and help the team." Zhang's three points came from one free throw and one putback basket. Though the sample was too small, he showed good energy and aggressiveness on the court. He first earned two free throws by charging the rim – it could have been a dunk if he weren't fouled. He then missed a floater but was fast enough to grab the offensive rebound to score the second-chance basket. His last shot was a missed 3-pointer. Considering that the Suns will still be a major championship contender in the 2022-23 season, Zhang is unlikely to stay in the team when the regular season begins. However, it doesn't mean he has no chance to stay in the NBA. When the Toronto Raptors kept Japan's Yuta Watanabe in 2020, they were convinced by his attitude of playing every possession as if it were his last on the floor. If Zhang can do the same, teams may reach out to sign him as well.