Tiger Taming Quan is one of the traditional Chinese Quan techniques that imitate the movements of other creatures. It is neatly organized and features stable and powerful movements of the legs that deliver highly effective attack and defense. Tiger Taming Quan is one of the most precious Quan techniques at Wudang Mountain. According to Chinese legend, it can tame tigers. Its movements are swift and powerful. Most of the techniques are related to the legs, fists and hand or claw skills. It's a set of Quan that Taoists must practice to increase kung fu. Wudang Mountain is where Taoist Wushu originates. Many young Chinese people go there to learn wushu with the aspiration to become kung fu masters or legendary wushu experts. Many years later, some of them stayed and became Taoists, while others chose to go down the mountain. Jiang Shimo is one of them; he aspires to become a swordsman. When Jiang saw this set of Quan techniques practiced on the mountain, he thought it was powerful and mighty. He liked it very much and really wanted to learn it. When he first came down the mountain and started living in the city, Jiang felt out of place with the world. People stared at him, and although he learned wushu, there was no place to put what he learned into use. Jiang used to dream that he could travel all over the world as a wushu expert, but the wushu he learned became a means of living. Over time, he increasingly felt that the once legendary tiger-taming wushu expert was gradually out of his reach. In real life, Jiang feels he is more like a tamed tiger. It made him feel terrible. At that time, Jiang thought he should take off the Taoist robe and change into casual dress to integrate with others. He set up a small film shooting group with his fellow Taoists and shot some short videos, including cosplay that young people like. In the world of video, Jiang become a swordsman. At that time, Jiang found out that the passion and aspiration that wushu brought to him had never vanished. They just lurked inside his heart. Despite leaving Wudang Mountain, Jiang still visits Taoist temples. He remembers the words an elder told him, "If you want to pursue Dao, you must set foot in the world and measure all the ways you go through." When you identify with yourself and are full of self-evidence, you are actually a swordsman. You tame the tiger in your heart with the techniques you've practiced.