A magnitude-7 earthquake hit Abra province, the Philippines, at a depth of 17 kilometers at 8:43 a.m. (0043 GMT) on Wednesday, according to the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology (PHIVOLCS). The quake killed at least two people and injured some 30 others, government officials said. The National Disaster Risk Reduction and Management Council (NDRRMC) confirmed one death in Benguet province in the northern Philippines. Local authorities also reported that at least five people were injured in Benguet province. Governor of Abra province, Jocelyn Bernos said a 25-year-old male was also killed after he was pinned by a concrete slab in Bangued town, capital of Abra province. She told a local radio interview that at least 25 were slightly injured from the earthquake. The PHIVOLCS recorded 140 aftershocks as of 11:30 a.m. following the magnitude-7 quake. Landslides were reported in parts of Abra province following the earthquake, particularly in Bucloc and Manabo, PHIVOLCS Director Renato Solidum said during a press conference. The tremor was felt in many areas on the main Luzon Island, including Metro Manila, where high-rise buildings swayed and train transport halted operations. Employees in several offices, including the presidential palace, ran out of buildings. La Paz town Mayor Joseph Bernos of Abra said that many concrete houses, buildings and infrastructure in the province were damaged. Philippine President Ferdinand Romualdez Marcos has ordered the immediate dispatch of rescue and relief teams to Abra, his press secretary said. Marcos will fly to Abra. All rail services resumed operation in the capital region as of 11:46 a.m. after being suspended, according to Philippine News Agency. The PHIVOLCS initially measured the powerful quake at magnitude 7.3. The Philippines has frequent seismic activity due to its location along the Pacific "Ring of Fire," a string of volcanoes and sites of earthquakes, around the edges of the Pacific Ocean. (With input from agencies)