Iga Swiatek admitted she was "confused" over her tactics after French veteran Alize Cornet ended the top seed's 37-match unbeaten run at Wimbledon on Saturday. Cornet, ranked 37, took advantage of an error-strewn performance from the Polish world No.1 to win 6-4, 6-2 on Court One in their third-round tie. Swiatek was broken five times and made a total of 33 unforced errors in an uncharacteristically sloppy display. The 21-year-old, who had won her previous six tournaments including the French Open, said she struggled to control the ball. "I know I didn't play good tennis," said Swiatek, who had not lost a match since her defeat to Jelena Ostapenko in February in Dubai, "I was pretty confused about my tactics." "As a solid player, she used that pretty well. For sure, it wasn't a good performance from me." Swiatek added. Though she had looked unbeatable on hard courts and clay, she had admitted she was on a learning curve on grass. In reaching the fourth round, Cornet matches her run at Wimbledon in 2014, when she beat Serena Williams in the third round. Cornet will face Australia's Ajla Tomljanovic for a place in the quarter-finals. Coco Gauff suffered her earliest Wimbledon exit in the third round when she was beaten by familiar foe Amanda Anisimova 6-7(4) 6-2 6-1 in an all-American showdown. Also on Saturday, all Chinese female players have been dumped out from the singles' tournament, as rising star Zheng Qinwen did not qualify for the last-16 after losing to Kazakh Elena Rybakina 6-7, 5-7. Zheng said she had learned a lot from her first Wimbledon journey, "I learned how much details mattered... I didn't expect the previous match would last such a long time, so I didn't eat enough food for lunch." "For a time on court, I felt hungry and did not have enough energy," the 19-year-old said. Meanwhile, China's top-ranked player Zhang Shuai alongside with Elise Mertens cruised into the doubles' third round after beating pair Viktorija Golubic and Camila Osorio 6-3, 6-2. On the men's court, second seed Rafarl Nadal, the champion in 2008 and 2010, reached the fourth round for the 10th time with a 6-1, 6-2, 6-4 win against Italian Lorenzo Sonego. Australian Nick Kyrgios came from behind to win a stormy encounter against Stefanos Tsitsipas 6-7 (2/7), 6-4, 6-3, 7-6 (9/7). (With input from agencies)