While media outlets are still avid for the whereabouts of Russian billionaire Roman Abramovich, whose 19-year reign as Chelsea owner came to an unceremonious conclusion earlier this year, England star Raheem Sterling has arrived at Stamford Bridge to usher in a new era. The 27-year-old has become Chelsea's first signing since an investment group led by American businessman Todd Boehly took over the reins in west London from Abramovich. The Premier League giants confirmed the deal on Wednesday night, and reports say the former Manchester City striker signed a five-year contract for a fee of £50 million ($59 million). One of the biggest names in the football world, Sterling has won four Premier League titles in the past five seasons. Capped 77 times by England, he is expected to bolster a Chelsea attacking line that has lacked efficiency and ruthlessness in recent times. "I've obviously achieved a lot in my career so far, but there is still so much more to achieve and I'm really looking forward to doing that in a Chelsea shirt, under Thomas' management," Sterling said in a statement. "London is my home and where it all started for me, and it's amazing I now have the opportunity to play in front of friends and family week in, week out at Stamford Bridge. I'm really looking forward to meeting the fans there soon." "Sterling is a serial winner and his signing is an important step in strengthening our squad," Chelsea chairman Boehly said. "We are delighted for Raheem to return to London with Chelsea, and we look forward to seeing his world-class talent on display at Stamford Bridge." Sterling had been open to a new challenge with only one year left on his contract at City and he had attracted interest from several European powerhouses, including Barcelona, Real Madrid and Atletico Madrid. Sky Sports revealed that Sterling would not have ruled out a return to Liverpool, where he made his name, before Chelsea made clear their desire to bring him to London. ESPN claimed that Chelsea emerged as the potential winner of the race only after manager Thomas Tuchel and Sterling had a constructive conversation about the role the striker may play at Chelsea. The German tactician has been frustrated with the impact made by Timo Werner, Christian Pulisic and Hakim Ziyech, and he holds Sterling, who offers a much-needed blend of experience and efficiency, in high regard. Sterling is often scrutinized for missing one-on-one chances, but according to stats provider Opta, since Pep Guardiola became City manager in 2016, only Sergio Aguero (124) has scored more goals for City than Sterling (120). For all his profligacy in front of goal, Sterling netted more goals than Chelsea's leading league scorer in each of the last five campaigns.  There is no doubt about Sterling's scoring record. In a statement released later in the day, City called Sterling "one of the club's greatest modern-day players." "Raheem has been a wonderful servant for Manchester City, and he leaves our club on the best terms possible having helped us win yet another Premier League title," said City director of football Txiki Begiristain. "He has played a very important part of the successes we've had in recent seasons and his dignity on and off the field has been an inspiration to many. He will be forever part of Manchester City and we wish him well in the next chapter of his career and he departs knowing he will always be welcomed at this football club." Sterling also penned an emotional farewell message on Twitter. "Seven seasons. Eleven major trophies. A lifetime of memories," he wrote. "To the coaching staff who have played a massive role in my development over the years. To my teammates who have become more than just those I share a pitch with. To the backroom staff. To the office staff. To the fans who have tirelessly supported the team, and to everyone involved with Manchester City. My respect for you couldn't be greater. "What a ride it's been. I am thankful for the ups and the downs, as it's the downs that have, at times, tested my strength and resolve and enabled me to stand here in front of you as the best possible version of myself. I arrived in Manchester a 20-year-old. Today, I leave as a man. Thank you for your endless support. It's been an honor to wear the shirt of Manchester City." For Chelsea, Sterling's arrival is further evidence of the new ownership's ambition to allow Tuchel to rebuild his squad and win more trophies. And there is still more to come. Renowned Italian journalist Gianluca Di Marzio claimed that Napoli defender Kalidou Koulibaly has agreed personal terms on a four-year deal with Chelsea and the transfer should be completed soon. The 31-year-old, who has 62 caps for Senegal, is expected to fly to London ahead of his medical on Thursday. Koulibaly has been included in Italian Serie A's Team of the Tear on four occasions and was named the best defender in Italy in 2019.