The Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR) government said Tuesday that comments regarding the National Security Law covered in a U.S. diplomat's speech are unfair criticisms that could not be further from the truth. The statement was made in response to the "farewell remarks" of U.S. Consul General in Hong Kong Hanscom Smith on Monday. Noting that the National Security Law has "stipulated for categories of offenses that endanger national security," the HKSAR government pointed out that "such offenses are clearly defined and are similar to those in the national security laws of other jurisdictions." Right after Smith's statement, the Office of the Commissioner of the Chinese Foreign Ministry in the HKSAR on Monday said Smith "slandered the Chinese central authorities' policies toward Hong Kong and vilified the successful practice of 'One Country, Two Systems.'" The facts have proven that since 1997, Hong Kong's economy has developed vigorously. Its position as a global financial, shipping and trade center has remained stable, and its freedom, openness and favorable business environment have ranked among the top in the world, the office said. "One Country, Two Systems" has been a universally recognized success and practice has repeatedly proven that it is a good system that conforms to the fundamental interests of the country and the Chinese nation, serves the fundamental interests of Hong Kong and has the full support of the more than 1.4 billion people in the motherland, the office pointed out. The office stressed the legal basis for the Chinese government to govern Hong Kong after Hong Kong's return to the motherland is the Chinese constitution and the Basic Law of the HKSAR, not the Sino-British Joint Declaration. With the strong support of the central government and the firm backing of the motherland, the newly-sworn in SAR government will rally and lead the over 7 million Hong Kong residents to build, develop and run Hong Kong affairs well and write a new chapter in the practice of "One Country, Two Systems," the office said. (With input from Xinhua)