Cristiano Ronaldo was supposed to transform Manchester United from unlikely contenders to champions when he returned to Old Trafford as one of the most influential athletes in international sports. But not all fairy tales have happy endings. The 37-year-old missed United training for a fourth straight day, having made plain his intentions to get out of this unhappy reunion and jump ship during this summer's transfer window. On Thursday night, United supporters' worst fears were confirmed as the club admitted that Ronaldo will not join the squad that will fly to Thailand to kick-start their preseason. "Cristiano Ronaldo will not be part of the Manchester United party scheduled to depart for our preseason tour of Thailand and Australia on Friday," said a United spokesperson in a statement. "He has been granted additional time off to deal with a family issue. Cristiano remains under contract with Manchester United for another season and he is not for sale." Despite that statement, multiple British media outlets say the Premier League giants are willing to listen to offers for their highest paid superstar, who was due to return to training on Monday but took an extended break for unspecified reasons. According to Fabrizio Romano, one of the world's most reliable journalists with regard to football transfers, Ronaldo has told United he wants to leave because he does not believe the club can win the Premier League next season and wants to play in the Champions League. Ronaldo returned to United from Juventus last summer and scored 24 goals in all competitions. But he was unable to help them qualify for the Champions League as United finished with their lowest ever Premier League points tally in the 2021/2022 campaign, having accumulated just 58 from 38 league matches. As a consequence of this diabolical failure, Ronaldo is in line for a 25 percent salary cut and an ignominious experience of playing in the Europa League, the second tier of elite European football next season, which is thought to be part of the reasoning behind his strong desire to leave. It is understood that Ronaldo's agent Jorge Mendes has been trying to facilitate a move for his client for weeks, with Chelsea, Bayern Munich and Napoli among the clubs interested in the five-time Ballon d'Or winner. The Athletic claimed that Chelsea's new owner Todd Boehly held a meeting with Mendes in Portugal last week as the two parties discussed the possibility of bringing Ronaldo to Stamford Bridge. The Blues are keen to sign a world-class striker after the departure of Romelu Lukaku, but their priority is currently getting a deal over the line with Manchester City for Raheem Sterling. While Chelsea remain coy about their next move, Bayern have seemingly ruled themselves out of the running to scoop Ronaldo. "As much as I appreciate Cristiano Ronaldo as one of the greatest, a transfer would not fit into our philosophy," Bayern CEO Oliver Kahn told the Kicker on Thursday. Nevertheless, Ronaldo's desire for an exit may force through a move in the coming days or weeks. In the meantime, United have to move on. Their preseason tour starts against Liverpool in Bangkok on July 12, before they face Melbourne Victory in Australia three days later. They are due to return to Manchester on July 25. United indicated there is no timeframe for Ronaldo to rejoin the squad. As things stand, he might not even get the chance to say goodbye.