Wimbledon champion Novak Djokovic is hoping the U.S. authorities change entry rules in time to allow him to compete at the U.S. Open, even though he refuses to be vaccinated against coronavirus. The Serbian top seed beat Nick Kyrgios in four sets on Sunday to win his seventh title at the All England Club and 21st Grand Slam crown overall, leaving him just one behind Rafael Nadal. Now he is targeting a fourth U.S. Open crown after losing to Daniil Medvedev in the final last year. But his unvaccinated status means he will not be allowed into the United States to play in the tournament, which starts next month. "I'm not vaccinated and I'm not planning to get vaccinated so the only good news I can have is them removing the mandated green vaccine card or whatever you call it to enter United States or exemption," said the 35-year-old. "I don't think exemption is realistically possible... I think it's just whether or not they remove this in time for me to get to the USA." Djokovic's coach, former Wimbledon champion Goran Ivanisevic, said it had been a "tough year" for the player. But he said he never doubted Djokovic would recover, describing him as "heroic." "People like him you don't doubt," he said. "He's a great champion. They say maybe took him a long time, but it didn't take him a long time. It took him the exact time that he needed to recover and to digest all the things that happened to him." Djokovic, whose Wimbledon triumph was his fourth in succession at the All England Club, said he was now taking a much-needed holiday. "I am on vacation," he said. "Whether or not I'm playing any tournament soon, I'll definitely be resting for the next couple of weeks because it has been quite an exhausting and demanding period for me the last few months. "A lot of tennis, which I was very happy about. I got what I wanted here. Then I'll wait hopefully for some good news from the USA because I would really love to go there." The former world No. 1 said he did not feel under pressure to play a certain schedule. "I achieved that historic No. 1, weeks for No. 1, that I worked for all my life. Now that that's done and dusted, I prioritize Slams and big tournaments really and where I want to play, where I feel good." Djokovic also said he felt lifted by the Wimbledon crowd on Sunday – he has often faced an uphill battle to win fans over when he has been playing Roger Federer or Rafael Nadal. "I did definitely feel support and feel love from the crowd today, so I'm very grateful for that," he said. "Obviously it's not a secret that any player would like to have people backing him during the match because at the end of the day this could make a quite big difference with how you feel mentally."