Yanji is located in the center of the Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture in northeast China's Jilin Province; Its population is approximately 686,100, of which a large section is from the Korean ethnic group. Yanji is the capital city and cultural center of Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture in Northeast China's Jilin Province. Picturesque scenery in Yanji Yanji is situated among foothills, with the central metropolitan area in a small, flat area. The city's location is a mountainous and forested basin in a high latitude zone. Yanji City is characterized by a continental climate where the winters are harsh and cold, while the summers are mild and cool. In Yanji, there is a small mountain with a peculiar shape - like a hat standing on the outskirts of Yanji city - inside Mao'er Mountain National Forest Park. The Mao'er Mountain National Forest Park covers an area of 11-square-kilometer. Located in the southern suburbs of Yanji City, it is bordered by the Buerhatong River and Hailan River. On top of the mountain stands the landmark building of the Mao'er Mountain National Forest Park, called Iron Tower. Visitors can have a panoramic view of the whole of Yanji City by climbing up the tower. Misted peaks above the verdant valleys, where one can enjoy this picturesque scenery. Fairy tale scenery is on display here. All kinds of pine, elm, poplar, and shrubs grow on the mountain; roosting pheasants, rabbits, and other wild animals inhabit the forest; and a wide variety of mushrooms are growing in the dense grassland. Cultural Tour in Yanji Situated at the foot of Mao'er Mountain is the Chinese Korean Nationality Folk-custom Garden, where one can experience the architecture, customs, and traditional living practices of the Korean ethnic group. The folk-custom garden contains a traditional culture display area, a traditional sports performance area, a 100-year-old house experience area, a folklore activity experience center, and a traditional food experience area. The folk-custom garden has quaint homes, swings, wrestling rings, a food street, and a wedding hall. Visitors can wear Korean ethnic group costumes, learn simple and bright dance steps, and participate in Korean ethnic group weddings. Also not to be missed is the campus of Yanbian University. Yanbian University was founded in March 1949. It is a local comprehensive university with national characteristics and a key university in Jilin Province. The place to begin one's exploration of the university is the front gate which was built in Korean ethnic group architectural style. The buildings on campus have a unique style, with a roof that looks like a boat in the middle and shapes like cranes at both ends. Gourmet feast in Yanji In Yanji, authentic kimchi, Yanji cold noodles, spicy stir-fried rice cake, rice sausages, Korean bibimbap, Jajangmyeon, Korean soup rice, and grilled minted fish bring visitors a gourmet feast. Yanji can satisfy all your expectations of Korean cuisine. One must not miss the Yanji cold noodles among all these succulent cuisines. Buckwheat noodles with chilled broth are one of the unique dishes of the Korean ethnic group. The mixed flavors of sour, sweet, salty, and spicy create a unique mouth-watering taste. The water market in Yanji, where the locals go daily, also serves as one of the destinations for food tours. The most authentic kimchis can be found here. In the market, one can also find spicy stir-fried rice cake, a popular Korean street food made of soft, chewy rice cakes cooked in a sweet and spicy sauce made of Korean red pepper paste.