NASA on Tuesday showcased the first full-color images captured by the James Webb Space Telescope, also known as JWST or Webb, following its six-month process to unfurl all the components of the newly launched apparatus, align its mirrors and calibrate its instruments. Taken by Webb's Near-Infrared Camera, the image – dubbed as Webb's First Deep Field – captured thousands of galaxies in sharp detail. The deep field is a composite of images at different wavelength which together showcases the galaxy cluster SMACS 0723 as it appeared 4.6 billion years ago, according to NASA. Webb's 6.5-meter gold-coated primary mirror consists of 18 individual hexagonal segments and is protected by a five-layered sunshield the size of a tennis court. The $10 billion project is the world's largest and most powerful space observatory ever built. Operating at the Earth-sun Lagrange point 2, a point that's nearly 1 million miles (1.5 million kilometers) away from Earth, Webb's infrared eyes will scan the cosmos and can see through roughly 13 billion years ago as it takes time for light to travel through space. Webb was constructed under contract by aerospace giant Northrop Grumman Corp. It was launched into space for NASA and its European and Canadian counterparts on Christmas Day 2021 from French Guiana, on the northeastern coast of South America. The highly anticipated release of its first imagery follows a six-month process of remotely unfurling Webb's various components, aligning its mirrors and calibrating instruments. With Webb now finely tuned and fully focused, scientists will embark on a competitively selected list of missions exploring the evolution of galaxies, the life cycles of stars, the atmospheres of distant exoplanets and the moons of our outer solar system. Built to view its subjects chiefly in the infrared spectrum, Webb is about 100 times more sensitive than its 30-year-old predecessor, the Hubble Space Telescope, which operates mainly at optical and ultraviolet wavelengths. The much larger light-collecting surface of Webb's primary mirror – an array of 18 hexagonal segments of gold-coated beryllium metal – enables it to observe objects at greater distances, thus further back in time, than Hubble or any other telescope. All five of Webb's introductory targets were previously known to scientists. Among them are two enormous clouds of gas and dust blasted into space by stellar explosions to form incubators for new stars – the Carina Nebula and the Southern Ring Nebula, each thousands of light years away from Earth. The collection also includes two very different sets of galaxy clusters. One of those, Stephan's Quintet, was first identified in 1877 and encompasses several galaxies described by NASA as "locked in a cosmic dance of repeated close encounters." The other is a much more recent discovery dubbed SMACS 0723, featuring objects in the foreground so massive that they act as "gravitational lenses," a visual distortion of space that greatly magnifies the light coming from behind them to expose even fainter objects farther away and further back in time. NASA will also present Webb's first spectrographic analysis of an exoplanet – one roughly half the mass of Jupiter that lies more than 1,100 light years away - revealing the molecular signatures of filtered light passing through its atmosphere. (With input from Reuters)