The Chinese men's national basketball team edged out Bahrain 80-79 at the FIBA Asia Cup in Jakarta on Thursday, securing their first win in the group stage. Bahrain had never been difficult opponents for China in the past, but with many Chinese players not in their best form after recovering from COVID-19 or due to insufficient training, Thursday's game was very close.  The team could have lost without the clutch time performance of Gu Quan and Jiang Weize. Two of China's starters, Sun Minghui and Zhao Rui, were ejected after receiving two technical fouls each. Head coach Du Feng cited that as one of the reasons behind the team's struggling performance. "We played terrible in the game," Du told reporters on Thursday. "Players maintain a clear mind and stay focused on the game instead of losing control over trifles." "Both Sun Minghui and Zhao Rui should remain calm today. I know they had good will and tried for the team's benefit, but they were ejected as a result. That caused difficulties for our rotation and affected other players' mentality." Some of the team's players are appearing in a major international tournament for the first time at the Asia Cup and thus were under great pressure on the court. "They were a bit nervous, but that's normal. And then there were the ejections. All these distracted our players," Du said. "Therefore, despite the win, we have a lot to study and sum up about this game, including the things we failed to do correctly. I hope our young players could see their shortcomings instead of feeling good about their performance in the domestic league. They need to work hard to show their best skills in international games." China are playing Chinese Taipei in their last group game on Saturday. South Korea are likely to advance to the elimination stage as the leader of this group after pocketing two wins. The second and third teams will have to participate in a repechage to gain a spot in the quarterfinals. If China reach the elimination stage as second of the group, their most probable opponents will be Indonesia, who are not a traditional basketball power. But as hosts, the Indonesians will be very motivated to fight hard this time as they will need to be among the best eight to qualify for the FIBA Basketball World Cup in 2023. A bigger test will come for China in the quarterfinals, if they make it there, because their opponents then are likely to be New Zealand. Though the team has taken many young players to the Asia Cup, China's record against New Zealand is not favorable.