Record-breaking Novak Djokovic overcame a slow start to beat Britain's Cameron Norrie 2-6, 6-3, 6-2, 6-4 on Friday, reaching an eighth Wimbledon final, where he will face Australian Nick Kyrgios. It will be a record 32nd Grand Slam final in the men's game for the six-time Wimbledon champion – taking him one clear of Roger Federer and two ahead of Rafael Nadal. Nadal earlier has given a walkover to his semifinal opponent Kyrgios due to an abdominal injury. The Serb, who has a 2-0 losing record against Kyrgios, promised "fireworks" as he targets a 21st Grand Slam singles title on Sunday. "He has one of the biggest serves in the game. We haven't played for some time," said the 35-year-old."I've never won a set off him. Hopefully, it can be different this time. It's another final for me at Wimbledon, so hopefully, the experience can work in my favor.” Djokovic is on a 27-match winning streak at Wimbledon as he seeks to draw level with Pete Sampras on seven titles at the All England Club – just one behind Federer's men's record. Zhang Shuai/Elise Mertens cruise into women's doubles final Top seeds Zhang Shuai and Elise Mertens needed 1 hour and 42 minutes to sweep past unseeded American pair Danielle Collins and Desirae Krawczyk 6-2, 3-6, 6-3 and set up a final showdown against second-seeded Barbora Krejcikova and Katerina Siniakova from the Czech Republic. Zhang, who is into a Wimbledon final for the first time, is going for her third Grand Slam title in women's doubles. Her two previous major titles came paired with Samantha Stosur at the 2019 Australian Open and last year's U.S. Open. The 33-year-old, also China's top-ranked tennis player, wrote on Weibo, a leading Chinese social media platform, that she felt lucky to play on a court with 100 years of history on Saturday. "No one can always win, but no one can stop me from endeavoring," she added. Mertens, meantime, now has a chance to win consecutive Wimbledon women's doubles titles with different partners. The Belgian is seeking her fourth Grand Slam doubles title overall. Their rivals, the Czechs duo, have won four Grand Slam titles, including Wimbledon in 2018. (With input from agencies) (Cover image: Serbian Novak Djokovic shakes hands with Great Britain's Cameron Norrie after their semi-final match during the Wimbledon in London, UK, July 8, 2022. /CFP)