Amid the celebrations marking the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland, the China Global Television Network (CGTN) TV documentary channel and Radio The Greater Bay began broadcasting in the region. Radio The Greater Bay covered the celebrations live in Cantonese from the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre, including the inauguration ceremony of the new HKSAR Government. A large number of content-rich, well-produced programs on a wide range of topics on the first day aroused widespread attention among Hong Kong residents and congratulations from various sectors in Hong Kong and Macao. Radio Television Hong Kong Director of Broadcasting SY Kim Cheung expressed his appreciation for the strong support from China Media Group (CMG). He said that when he watched the broadcast of "Hong Kong, A View from Air" and "Remarkable Construction," he could not help but admire the outstanding achievements of nation-building. HKSAR Legislative Council (LegCo) member Chan Yung, said that as a LegCo member and a deputy to the National People's Congress, he was pleased to see the channels start broadcasting. He said the broadcast could help Hong Kong understand the national policy and provide a comprehensive understanding of the country. It will also help young people integrate into the surrounding Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area and find more opportunities. Hong Kong Federation of Journalists Vice-Chairman Kwok Yat-ming said that CMG authoritatively disseminates the voice of the Central Government. The documentary channel introduces the authentic and original contemporary China with portraits so that Hong Kong has another media platform to gauge the state of the nation. Radio The Greater Bay breaks through the geographical boundaries of Guangdong and Hong Kong and enhances the mutual understanding and knowledge of the Chinese mainland and Hong Kong's young people, he said. Hong Kong youth Yiu Chow-yat watched a TV program exploring precious cultural relics and said it made her feel the heritage of Chinese history from the bottom of her heart. There will be more than one channel to touch the soul of the country's culture and the beauty of the mountains and rivers. Alex, a photographer from New Zealand, said that CGTN Documentary Channel's excellent programs had shown him the passion of the Chinese people for creating a better life and the greatness of China. He looks forward to seeing the channel tell more stories of Chinese people and improving people's understanding of the country's development. The Radio the Greater Bay emphasizes the elements of Hong Kong, Macao, and the Bay Area. It is closer to the listening habits of Hong Kong and Macao audiences with various highlights. According to local feedback, Radio The Greater Bay has a stable, transparent, and smooth signal in Hong Kong's central areas, such as Hong Kong Island, Kowloon, and Mid-Levels, with good listening results.