The world's first high-end intelligent driving car for urban roads debuted at the 2022 China (Shenyang) Intelligent Connected Vehicles (ICV) International Conference in Shenyang City, Liaoning Province on Friday. The vehicle, Polar Fox Alpha S Huawei HI, or ARCFOX αS HI, is the first product jointly developed by Chinese carmaker ARCFOX and Chinese tech giant Huawei. It boasts the world's first mass-produced car equipped with HI, Huawei's full-stack smart car solution, and its first high-end pure electric car equipped with Huawei's smart cockpit-Harmony car OS. High-tech smart car With Huawei's DriveONE high-voltage dual-motor intelligent four-wheel-drive system, ARCFOX αS HI can speed up from 0 to 100 kilometer/hour within 3.5 seconds. Huawei's AI high-voltage flash charging platform also supports fast charging, allowing the smart car's battery to charge from 30 percent to 80 percent in only 15 minutes. Equipped with the HarmonyOS smart cockpit, the ARCFOX αS HI is also capable of interconnected, customized and upgraded smart driving experiences. "The hardware and infrastructure capabilities of the intelligent driving system of this car are the most powerful (in the world) at the moment, " said Yu Chengdong, managing director of Huawei, noting that by the end of 2022, no other car will be able to outdo the ARCFOX αS HI with better autonomous driving in terms of hardware design, fusion sensing and algorithm capabilities. China ICV conference With the theme of "Introducing New Wisdom with Win-Win Sharing," the 2022 China (Shenyang) Intelligent Connected Vehicles International Conference kicked off on Friday. The two-day conference is the second staging of China's International Intelligent Connected Vehicles (ICV) Conference, which was introduced to the world in 2021. Involving competition, meeting, exhibition and customer experiences, this year's conference includes four main sections: an intelligent connected vehicle application competition, an intelligent connected vehicle industry development summit forum, an intelligent technology exhibition and numerous intelligent demonstration experience activities, alongside project road shows.