Chicago's teams from North America's top four professional sporting leagues came together to condemn a deadly shooting that marred an Independence Day parade in one of the city's most affluent suburbs on Monday. Major League Baseball's Chicago Cubs and Chicago White Sox, the National Basketball Association's Chicago Bulls, the National Hockey League's Chicago Blackhawks, and the National Football League's Chicago Bears all issued statements slamming the assault and mourning the loss of lives, as well as lamenting the impact on those affected by the tragedy. At least six people were killed with around 30 injured after a gunman opened fire from a rooftop onto a parade route in the northern suburb of Highland Park, sending hundreds of marchers, parents with strollers, and children on bicycles fleeing in terror. Authorities said a 22-year-old male named as a person of interest in the shooting was taken into police custody Monday evening after an hour-long manhunt. Highland Park, which has a population of about 30,000, is dotted with scenic mansions and lakeside estates that have long attracted the rich and famous, including NBA legend Michael Jordan, who lived in the area during his career with the Bulls. "What happened today in Highland Park was horrifying and senseless," the Bulls said in their statement. "Over the years, Highland Park has been home to many members of Bulls Nation, including a number of Bulls players and staff. Our connection with the community is personal, and it holds a particularly special place in our heart." The White Sox consulted with MLB and local authorities about postponing Monday night's game against the Minnesota Twins before ultimately deciding to carry on with the contest – preceded by a moment of silence for the victims – but canceling a postgame fireworks display. "Unfortunately, it's almost daily," White Sox manager Tony La Russa said of the Highland Park tragedy and other mass shootings. "Way too frequently. Even when there's an explanation, there's no explanation. It doesn't make sense." The Cubs, who played the Milwaukee Brewers on the road in the afternoon, said the violence left them "heartbroken and grief-stricken," while the Bears described the incident as "senseless and disgraceful." And the Blackhawks added their voices to those denouncing the shooting by stating: "Everyone deserves to feel safe where they live, work, and play, and this simply cannot be accepted as commonplace." (With input from AP)