Liverpool have reached a long-term contract extension with their top scorer Mohamed Salah, the Premier League football club announced on Friday. "Liverpool FC are delighted to announce Mohamed Salah has signed a new long-term contract with the club," "The Reds" said in a statement. "The forward, who was named the FWA Footballer of the Year and the PFA Players' Player of the Year for 2021-22 after helping Jurgen Klopp's side to a domestic cup double, has committed his future to The Reds by putting pen to paper on the deal on Friday." Thirty-year-old Salah, who was due to became a free agent this summer, will stay at Anfield till 2025 with a new weekly salary that is as much as 350,000 pounds (about $424,000). Money has been one of the reasons for the various transfer rumors that involved him in the past three years. "It takes a little bit of time, I think, to renew, but now everything is done so we just need to focus on what's next," Salah said. "I think you can see in the last five or six years the team was always going [upwards]. Last season we were close to winning four, but unfortunately in the last week of the season we lost two trophies." Having scored 156 goals in 254 games for Liverpool since he joined the club in 2017, Salah has been the sharpest offensive weapon of his team. He got 31 goals and 16 assists, making significant contributions to helping Liverpool win the FA Cup and EFL Cup. The team was one point behind Manchester City in the Premier League and lost to Real Madrid in the UEFA Champions League final game. "I think we are in a good position to fight for everything. We have new signings as well. We just need to keep working hard, have a good vision, be positive and go for everything again," Salah said. The biggest one of those new signings was the 100-million-euro (about $104.2 million) transfer of Darwin Nunez from Porto. The 22-year-old Uruguayan striker replaced Sadio Mane, who departed for Bayern Munich, to make the new offensive combination with Salah and Roberto Firmino, if the latter doesn't leave Anfield this summer.