People of different ethnic groups and occupations in northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region have called on the UN human rights chief to give a fair and objective view of the human rights situation in the region by sending her emails to show their personal experiences. In many letters to UN High Commissioner for Human Rights Michelle Bachelet, Xinjiang residents told her what they had suffered in terrorist incidents, what they had learned from former education and training centers, and also the region's efforts in religious freedom and ethnic culture protection. Alimjan Mattohti, a witness to the July 5 riot in Urumqi, capital city of the region, wrote, "As I walked to Yan'an Park, I saw several cars set ablaze and many [people] chased and beaten by rioters. I tried my best to save as many lives as I could, regardless of my own safety. And I saved 28 who were severely wounded." Zaynur Namatqari, a graduate from the education and training center in Shufu County, Kashgar Prefecture, wrote "While we were studying at the education and training center, all the rights of female trainees were fully protected. Teachers were very nice to us." "As a graduated trainee, I want to make it clear that no female trainee was sexually abused at the center. All the allegations of education and training [centers] being 'concentration camps,' 'female trainees being sexually abused,' and 'male trainees being tortured,' are all made up by the BBC." Abdureqip Tomurniyaz, president of the Xinjiang Islamic Association and president of Xinjiang Islamic Institute said in his email, "Xinjiang fully implements the policy of freedom of religious belief, and protects normal religious activities and fulfills the reasonable religious demands of believers." Zulhayat Ismayil, deputy president of Xinjiang University, wrote in her email that fine traditional cultures of ethnic minorities are well protected. Uygur Muqam art, Kirgiz epic Manas and Uygur Meshrep were registered on the "Representative List of the Intangible Cultural Heritage of Humanity." In late May this year, Bachelet visited Xinjiang with a delegation.