Editor's note: CGTN's First Voice provides instant commentary on breaking stories. The daily column clarifies emerging issues and better defines the news agenda, offering a Chinese perspective on the latest global events. On July 3, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi met with Myanmar's Foreign Minister U Wunna Maung Lwin on the sidelines of the seventh Lancang-Mekong Cooperation (LMC) Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Bagan, Myanmar. Wang is the highest ranking Chinese official to visit the country since its former leader Aung San Suu Kyi was removed from power in early 2021. Over the years, Myanmar hasn't exactly enjoyed stable domestic politics. Political struggle between the military and Suu Kyi's National League for Democracy has defined Myanmar political situation for decades. Suu Kyi's fall from grace in 2021 led to a new round of chaos, with the United States imposing new sanctions and the West calling for her release. And amid the political turmoil that followed Suu Kyi's removal from power, Chinese businesses in the country fell prey to acts of violence. "If one civilian killed one Chinese factory will become ashes," tweeted the founder of the London-based Burma Human Rights Network. Chinese enterprises were vandalized in the country and millions of dollars were lost. In fact, since Myanmar gained independence from Britain's colonial rule and Japanese occupation, the country has been trying to find its own political footings. Struggle over governance, strife between ethnic groups and multiple acts of foreign interference were and still are the norm of the country. Alternating between military and civilian rule, Myanmar is still limping on its developmental path, despite being independent for more than 70 years. When Myanmar's Foreign Minister visited China in April, State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said that "no matter how the situation changes, China will always support Myanmar in safeguarding sovereignty, independence and territorial integrity and exploring a development path in line with its national conditions, and support the people of Myanmar in pursuing a happy and peaceful life." These words reflect the fact that China recognizes the complexity and the precariousness of Myanmar's political struggle, and that China has remained friendly regardless of the forms of government in the country. In fact, between June 2015 and April 2019, Chinese President Xi Jinping met six times with Aung San Suu Kyi to discuss a wide range of topics. To promote China's Belt and Road Initiative in Myanmar, Suu Kyi formed and chaired a steering committee for its implementation. China is Myanmar's largest trading partner, largest import and export market. In 2021, trade volume between China and Myanmar reached $18.3 billion. The new international railway route from China's Chongqing to Myanmar's Mandalay shortens the times needed to travel between the two cities by about 20 days, according to the Manila Times. And this route serves as a critical juncture to connect Chongqing to members the ASEAN countries and signatories of RCEP. As China's neighbor and important partner in regional affairs, the stability of Myanmar is crucial to Chinese interests. As Wang Yi said in April, China is ready to share its experience on state governance and development with the Myanmar government, parties and factions. Reconciliation, power-sharing and multi-ethnic governance are complicated and delicate for any country whose domestic political struggle remains unsolved. As a country that has successfully governed over dozens of ethnic groups, maintained domestic stability while achieving record-breaking development, China's experience is valuable for Myanmar. Stability can only be achieved when political factions and parties can find a way to work together consistently on critical issues. A good relationship between Myanmar and China benefits both and serves as a solid foundation for whoever is in power to pursue development. But ultimately, it will be up to the Myanmar people to find their own path. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)