The footballing world has paid tribute to one of the greatest players of all time, Uwe Seeler, who died at the age of 85 on Thursday. The Germany legend, who was renowned for his humility and loyalty, spent his entire club career at his hometown team Hamburg and scored an incredible 404 goals in 476 appearances.  Seeler made his first-team debut in 1953 and retired in 1972. He won the German league title and German Cup with Hamburg and remains the club's all-time top scorer in the Bundesliga to this day. He was made an honorary citizen of Hamburg in 2003 and famously told reporters, "I'm no better than anyone else, I'm just a normal person. I just played football." "Uwe Seeler stands for everything that characterizes a good person: Down-to-earthness, loyalty, joie de vivre, plus he was always approachable," read a statement from Hamburg's official website. "It was not only Seeler's sporting successes and records that were unparalleled, but above all his down-to-earth, fair and loyal manner that earned the Hamburg-born player a reputation as an absolute man of honor. "We will never forget him and will always cherish him. Now our thoughts and sympathy go out to Uwe's family, to whom we extend our heartfelt condolences." Brazil football great Pele named Seeler in his list of the world's greatest living players in 2004. "His handling of the ball was perfect, his shot precise, and what really amazed me was his ability to head the ball," observed Pele.  A truly masterful finisher, Seeler's expertise in this area saw him become the first player in history to score at four World Cups. He was an integral part of the country's national team, netting 43 times in 72 outings and captained them to the 1966 World Cup final. "Rest in peace," the German national team tweeted. "A national team honorary captain and footballing legend, Uwe Seeler has passed away at the age of 85. Our thoughts and deepest sympathy are with his family and loved ones." German champions Bayern Munich's chief executive Oliver Kahn said, "When you think of German football and its greatest players, you think of Uwe Seeler. His death is a painful loss for the entire football family. "Seeler stood for honest football, for loyalty and humanity, he was a player with heart and for the hearts - we will always remember him as one of the very special ones of the sport." Borussia Dortmund's chief executive Hans-Joachim Watzke added, "Uwe Seeler was an extraordinary footballer, but above all an extraordinary person. Without a doubt, he was one of the best strikers that Germany has ever produced." UEFA, the governing body of European football, also paid tribute. "A veteran of four World Cups, he played more than 70 times for his country and helped shape modern German football. Rest in peace, Uwe." Later in the day, Seeler was honored by a moment of silence before Germany's 2-0 win over Austria in the Women's Euro quarterfinal. Germany players also wore black armbands as mark of respect for the national icon. Seeler is survived by his wife Ilka, with whom he had three daughters. His grandson, Levin Oztunali, plays for Union Berlin in the Bundesliga.