While the NBA is busy with all the extension and free agency reports, Kevin Durant of the Brooklyn Nets again has shocked the whole league by requesting the team to trade him, according to business manager Rich Kleiman. Durant has even made a list of the destinations he intends to go, including the Phoenix Suns, which reached the NBA Finals in 2021, and the Miami Heat, which played seven games against the Boston Celtics in the Eastern Conference Finals this season. Sean Marks, general manager of the Nets, is working with Durant to figure out a trade that can meet the needs of both sides. Durant just signed a four-year, $198 million extension with the Nets in August 2021. It will begin to take effect in the 2022-23 season, starting with $43 million. Therefore, whoever acquires him won't have to worry about his departure for at least four seasons. Durant has averaged 29.9 points, 7.4 rebounds and 6.4 assists in 55 games for the Nets in the 2021-22 season. Considering the dreams of Kyrie Irving and James Harden as well as the fact that Ben Simmons hasn't played even one minute for the team since he joined, Durant again carried the Nets to the playoffs almost by himself. Though Durant's "underperformance" of getting 26.3 points, 5.8 rebounds and 6.3 assists per game was partly why the Nets were swept by the Celtics in the first round of the playoffs last season, he is still the spine of the team and deserves a champion squad around him. That's what the Nets have been working on since they landed him and Kyrie Irving in 2019 summer. However, Durant's trade request basically blew everything the team has done in the past three years. Though the Nets will understandably ask a lot for his trade, nothing they get will make up for the loss, at least not in the short period. Meanwhile, Durant's departure will leave two problems, Irving and Simmons, with the team. Simmons has been dealing with a back injury and mental issues since his fallout with the Philadelphia 76ers, but at least he is still young (25 years old) and has three years left of his current contract with the Nets. Irving, who opted in his last year of the deal for $36.5 million, is still connected with a series of trade rumors. Nonetheless, the Nets will never get half of what Durant's possible trade can earn them by sending Irving away. Durant's trade request has already drawn heavy criticism against him and the basketball commentary and media world will only go harder on him. However, he is still able to turn his new team into a championship contender immediately. If the Suns acquire Durant, he will be make their opponents pay for double-teaming Devin Booker; if the Heat land Durant, he will give them the scoring ability they are desperate for during clutch time.