Star guard Russell Westbrook of the Los Angeles Lakers has parted ways with his agent Thad Foucher of Wasserman after 14 years of cooperation, Foucher told ESPN on Friday. "I represented Russell Westbrook for 14 years and am proud of our partnership which included a highly successful 2008 draft, a super-max contract and the only renegotiation-and-extend max contract in history. I also supported Russell throughout his rise into a prominent fashion industry figure and recently orchestrated three successive trades on Russell's behalf – culminating with the trade to his hometown Los Angeles Lakers," Foucher said in a statement. He said "irreconcilable differences" are between him and 33-year-old Westbrook and they can't work together anymore. Having played 14 seasons in the NBA since he was drafted by the Seattle Supersonics (today's Oklahoma City Thunder) with the fourth-overall pick in 2008, Westbrook has signed four contracts and made over $291 million so far with one more year worth $47.1 million left of his current deal with the Lakers. As a nine-time NBA All-Star, Westbrook was traded three times, all after he turned 30 years old and his five-year, $206.8 million super deal began to take effect. It's true that every team traded heavily for him every time, but as aging and injuries took away his athleticism piece by piece, his market value kept dropping. It's no secret that the Lakers tried to send him away during, actually, even before this offseason. Though the team's newly appointed head coach Darvin Ham kept saying that Westbrook will stay as part of the team's future, the purple and gold have been actively engaged in trade discussions about Westbrook and Kyrie Irving. Foucher is convinced that the "best option" for Westbrook "is to stay with the Lakers, embrace the starting role and support that Darvin Ham publicly offered." Having averaged 18.5 points, 7.4 rebounds and 7.1 assists for the team in the 2021-22 season, Westbrook missed both the All-Star Game and the All-NBA Teams for the second straight year. It will be completely unfair to rule that Westbrook ceased to be a star player anymore. He was still able to drop a triple-double of 22.2 points, 11.5 rebounds and 11.7 assists in the Wizards during the 2020-21 season. He could still make his team competitive by holding the ball enough with acceptable spacing on the court. Unfortunately, Westbrook had neither in the Lakers, which had the worst spacing in the league last season. Neither could he build chemistry with LeBron James. There is no need to point fingers at either because their styles of playing simply didn't fit. Westbrook's high salary makes it very difficult for any team to take in his contract. Neither do the Lakers have enough valuable assets to sweeten the pot in trade negotiations. It may take a multi-team trade for him and the Lakers to part ways.