Russian gas flows via the Nord Stream 1 pipeline resumed on Thursday after 10 days of maintenance, according to Germany's dpa news agency. Gas is flowing again, and the gas transport level via Nord Stream 1 has resumed at the pre-maintenance level, around 40 percent of the pipeline's transport capacity, a spokesman for Nord Stream AG was quoted as saying. However, he added that the registered volumes could also change in the course of a day, and it would take some time before full transport capacity is reached. Meanwhile, Klaus Mueller, chief of the federal network agency Bundesnetzagentur, said on Wednesday evening that 30 percent of the maximum transport capacity was to flow through the pipeline. Nord Stream 1 transports 55 billion cubic meters of gas annually from Russia to Germany under the Baltic Sea and has been offline since July 11. Requests for Russian natural gas flows through the Nord Stream 1 pipeline into Germany stood at 29,284,591 kilowatt hours per hour for the 6 to 7 a.m. CET slot, Reuters reported, citing data from the website of the operator, Nord Stream AG. The international consortium of five major companies was established in 2005 for the planning, construction and subsequent operation of two 1,224-kilometer natural gas pipelines through the Baltic Sea. A spokesperson for Austria's OMV said Gazprom signaled it would deliver around 50 percent of the agreed upon gas volumes on Thursday. On June 14, Russia reduced gas flows to 40 percent of capacity through the pipeline, citing the delay of a turbine being serviced in Canada. Canada has said it had issued a permit for the turbine's return, but it is not known when it will reach the Nord Stream. The West has accused Moscow of using its energy resources as a weapon. However, Russia insists it is a reliable supplier and dismisses the claims, saying that by supporting Ukraine, the West is waging economic warfare against Moscow. The European Union told member states on Wednesday to cut gas usage by 15 percent until March, warning that a complete shutdown of Russian gas supplies was "likely." (Cover: A file photo of a Nord Stream gas pipeline in Lubmin, northeastern Germany, November 8, 2011. /CFP) (With input from agencies)