Barcelona have confirmed that they have lost to Chelsea in the race to sign Sevilla defender Jules Kounde, with the Premier League giants preparing to complete their third signing of this summer transfer window. According to multiple media outlets, Chelsea agreed a deal worth around £55 million ($66 million) with Sevilla, and there is a five-year contract on the table for the 23-year-old French star.  Barcelona have been trying to hijack the deal and convince Kounde to stay in Spain, but the Spanish giants have been forced to give up as they are unable to match Chelsea's bid. Barca president Joan Laporta publicly conceded defeat in Las Vegas on Friday. When asked by a fan whether the club were going to sign Kounde, Laporta replied, "No, he is going to sign for Chelsea." Spanish newspaper Marca revealed that Sevilla preferred to accept Chelsea's bid over that of Barcelona because it offers straight cash while Barca proposed to add Dutch striker Memphis Depay into the deal.  Kounde would become another Chelsea statement signing in the Todd Boehly era, following the arrivals of Kalidou Koulibaly and Raheem Sterling earlier this month. Chelsea manager Thomas Tuchel needs to strengthen his defensive line after losing Antonio Rudiger and Andreas Christensen on free transfers. Apart from Kounde, Chelsea are also targeting Paris Saint-Germain's Presnel Kimpembe and RB Leipzig's Josko Gvardiol. Meanwhile, Chelsea's London rivals Arsenal announced on Friday night that they have completed the signing of Oleksandr Zinchenko from Manchester City. The 25-year-old Ukrainian star moves to the Emirates Stadium after a six-year spell with City, where he clinched four Premier League titles. He has also won the English FA Cup once and played in the 2021 Champions League final. "I would like to say this is a boyhood dream come true, because I was a massive fan when I was a kid," said Zinchenko in a statement. "Since Thierry Henry and young Cesc Fabregas was playing here, I was just enjoying watching those games, that Arsenal. "And obviously I started to love this club, so I am so excited and I cannot wait to play for this amazing club. I'm ready for another challenge. I'm not here just to waste my time and the time of Arsenal because the club is always in front of everyone. "I am here to achieve big things and I hope we can win some titles, and I hope we are going to fight for every title in which we are going to be involved." Arsenal manager Mikel Arteta said, "We're so happy Alex [Zinchenko] has joined us. He's a player that I personally know really well and continued to follow him after my time at Manchester City.  "Alex is a high quality player who will give us options and versatility. It's not only about the positions he can play but as well, the versatility he will give us in attack and defense. Alex is a person with great human qualities and character, and I'm delighted that everyone has made this huge effort to bring Alex to the club."