At least three people were killed and three others injured in a shooting attack at a shopping center in Copenhagen, the capital of Denmark, and one suspect was arrested, local police said. It was around 5:30 p.m. that the police received reports of shootings in the Field's shopping center in Amager area of southern Copenhagen, Soren Thomassen, Copenhagen chief police inspector, said at a press conference on Sunday evening. The chief inspector said a 22-year-old Dane was arrested outside the shopping mall shortly after police arrived. Thomassen also said that the police cannot rule out the possibility of a terror attack so far. The police have launched a massive manhunt operation in the whole Zealand region, the southernmost administrative region of Denmark. The municipality of Copenhagen has also activated its emergency response after the incident. "The crisis response team in the Copenhagen municipality has been called in. We are ready to help if the Copenhagen Police requests it," said Copenhagen Mayor Sophie Haestorp Andersen. The attack rocked Denmark at the end of an otherwise joyful week, just after it hosted the first three stages of the Tour de France cycle race, in an event that had sent thousands of cheering Danes into streets across the country. "Denmark was hit by a cruel attack on Sunday night. Several were killed. Even more wounded. Innocent families shopping or eating out. Children, adolescents and adults," Prime Minister Mette Frederiksen said in a statement late on Sunday. "Our beautiful and usually so safe capital was changed in a split second," she said. "I want to encourage the Danes to stand together and support each other in this difficult time." The capital's main hospital, Rigshospitalet, had received a "small group of patients" for treatment, a spokesperson said, and had called in extra doctors and nurses. Danish tabloid BT published unverified video footage it said was shot by a witness to the attack, Mahdi Al-Wazni, showing a man with a large rifle walking through the mall and swinging it around his shoulders. "He seemed very aggressive and shouted different things," Al-wazni told BT. The attack follows a deadly shooting in neighboring Norway last week, in which two people were killed by a lone shooter in the capital Oslo. The terrorist threat against Denmark is currently assessed to be "serious," with the biggest threat coming from "militant Islamism," according to the latest report from the Danish Security and Intelligence Service. Denmark last saw a militant attack in 2015, when two people were killed and six police officers wounded when a lone gunman shot and killed a man outside a culture center hosting a debate on freedom of speech, and later killed a person outside a Jewish synagogue in central Copenhagen. That gunman was killed in a shoot-out with the police. "Our thoughts and deepest sympathy are with the victims, their relatives and all those affected by the tragedy," Denmark's Queen Margrethe and the Crown Prince couple said in a statement. Copenhagen police were due to hold a second press briefing about the shooting at 12:45 a.m.. (With input from agencies)