The Ministry of Culture and Tourism announced on Friday 12 new 5A-rated tourist attractions, based on the recommendations of the relevant provincial (district or city) cultural and tourism administrative departments. The new national 5A tourist attractions are Hukou Waterfall of the Yellow River, Taizhou Fucheng Cultural Scenic Area, Sanbai Mountain National Scenic Spot, Jigong Mountain National Nature Reserve, Baidi City Qutang Gorge Scenic Area, Weishan Lake Scenic Area, Three Gorges Grand Waterfalls Scenic Area, Huang Yao Ancient Town Scenic Area, Anren Museum Town of China, Guizhou Zhijin Cave National Geopark, Guan'egou Scenic Area, and Jiangbulake Scenic Area. Here are descriptions of three of the new 5A attractions: Hukou Waterfall The Hukou Waterfall, located on the border between north China's Shanxi Province and northwest China's Shaanxi Province, is the second-largest waterfall in the country and the largest waterfall on the Yellow River. In 1991, the Hukou Waterfall was named one of the "40 Best" national scenic spots. Standing on the bank of the Yellow River, one can see the roaring river rushing through the mountains and falling into a deep pool, resembling boiling water in a teapot. The mist is refracted by the sunlight, forming a rainbow that spans the water like a colorful bridge. The Baidi City Qutang Gorge Scenic Area The Baidi (White Emperor) City Qutang Gorge Scenic Area is located at the confluence of the Caotang River and the Yangtze River east of Fengjie County, Chongqing. It majestically occupies the north shore of Qutang Gorge, the first gorge of the Three Gorges of the Yangtze River. Surrounded by water, the scenic spot has a rugged terrain. Qutang Gorge extends along the northern side of Baidi City. With a length of eight kilometers, it is the shortest but narrowest, most dangerous, and majestic section of the Three Gorges, with dangerous cliffs towering on both sides. Baidi City has a long and splendid historical culture. Literati and scholars like Li Bai (701–762) and Du Fu (712-770) wrote countless famous and immortal poems here, earning Baidi City the title of "Poetry City." Jigong Mountain National Nature Reserve Covering an area of 192 square kilometers, the Jigong Mountain National Nature Reserve lies on the border between Henan Province and Hubei Province, at the western foot of Dabie Mountains. The reserve stands at a high elevation of up to 3,300 meters. The Jigong Mountain features many cliffs, valleys, and grand peaks. It takes the name from its crest-like shape of a rooster. The long Jigong Mountain is often covered by a sea of clouds, and its main peak is just like a colossal rooster flying in the clouds and dancing elegantly.