Team USA wrapped up the 10-day World Athletics Championships by consolidating their place at the top of the medals table with a championship record 33 medals, but it was Swede Armand Duplantis who took center stage in Eugene on Sunday. Duplantis sailed over 6.21 meters to surpass his previous mark by one centimeter – set in March en route to winning gold at the World Indoor Championships – and complete his collection of medals by claiming a first world title. "It's great; I cannot complain," Duplantis said. "Actually, I did not think about the record that much today. I really wanted to win the gold so badly. It was the medal I was missing. "So when I was on this height, it was like everything came together and it happened from there." American Chris Nilsen took silver with 5.94 meters on count-back from Ernest John Obiena, whose bronze was the first-ever world medal for the Philippines. Earlier, the United States claimed emphatic victories in both the men's and women's 4x400 meter relays.Unheralded Nigerian Tobi Amusan rocketed to a new world record of 12.12 seconds in the semi-finals in the women's 100 meters hurdles. American Athing Mu held off British rival Keeley Hodgkinson to add the world 800 meters title to her Olympic crown while Germany's Malaika Mihambo, also a gold medalist in Tokyo, retained her long jump title. Jakob Ingebrigtsen of Norway made up for this runner-up finish in the 1,500 meters with a convincing victory in the 5,000 meters, where reigning Olympic champion and world record holder Joshua Cheptegei faltered and finished in ninth place. French world record holder Kevin Mayer regained the decathlon title after impressive performances in the pole vault and javelin, seizing his opportunity after a competition-ending injury to Olympic champion Damian Warner. In the morning session, Italy's Massimo Stano claimed a one-second victory over Masatora Kawano of Japan in the men's 35km race walk, adding a world gold to his Olympic crown. China's He Xianghong finished fifth in 2 hours 24 minutes and 45 seconds, setting the best national result. (With input from agencies) (Cover image: Armand Duplantis of Sweden sets a world record in the men's pole vault final during the World Athletics Championships in Eugene, Oregon, July 24, 2022. /CFP)