Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Thursday warned against any attempt to create a "new Cold War," as he exchanged views with Indian External Affairs Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar on the Ukraine issue. The two diplomats met in Bali, Indonesia on the sidelines of the G20 Foreign Ministers' Meeting. Raising China's concerns over the situation in Ukraine, Wang said China opposes any attempt to use the crisis to stir up the Cold War mentality and bloc confrontation and create a "new Cold War." Facing complex and severe challenges, the world values solidarity rather than division and needs dialogue, not confrontation, he said. China will continue to firmly stand on the right side of history and promote peace talks, added the Chinese Foreign Minister. China opposes double standards and any attempt to harm its sovereignty and territorial integrity, he said. Some countries stress the principle of sovereignty on the Ukraine issue but repeatedly challenge China's sovereignty and the one-China principle over Taiwan and even deliberately provoke tensions across the Taiwan Straits, he said, calling it "blatant double standards." China rejects any attempt to compare the Ukraine crisis with the Taiwan question and will resolutely defend its core interests, he said. China also opposes any attempt to harm other countries' legitimate development rights and interests, he said. Some countries have imposed unilateral sanctions on China and other countries under the pretext of the Ukraine crisis, which is illegitimate and illegal. He added that the sanctions have further complicated and magnified the crisis. Wang calls for China-India relations' early return to right track Wang told Jaishankar that since March, China and India have maintained communication and exchanges and effectively managed disputes, adding that bilateral relations have shown an overall trend of improvement. China and India share common interests and similar, reasonable appeals, Wang said. The two countries should maintain strategic focus and achieve development and revitalization in accordance with the goals they have set, he said, calling on the two sides to make greater contributions to the future of mankind. The two countries should implement the important consensus reached by their leaders and view each other as cooperative partners and development opportunities rather than threats, Wang said. He called for efforts from both sides to bring bilateral relations back to the right track at an early date. China supports India's role as the rotating chair of the G20 and the Shanghai Cooperation Organization next year, Wang said, adding that the two countries should strengthen coordination and cooperation, jointly promote the democratization of international relations and better protect the legitimate interests of developing countries.Jaishankar said since his meeting with Wang in March, the two countries have made positive progress in maintaining stability along their border, promoting practical cooperation and facilitating people's visits. India looks forward to positive, cooperative and constructive relations with China and is ready to make joint efforts with China to improve relations, he said.