Joel Embiid, the Cameroon-born five-time NBA All-Star center, obtained French nationality this week, which naturally led to the question: Will he join the French national team? As the NBA scoring leader in the 2021-22 season, Embiid averaged 30.6 points, 11.7 rebounds and 4.2 assists in 68 games for the Philadelphia 76ers in the regular season. He was named for the All-NBA Second Team and had a close race with Nikola Jokic and Giannis Antetokounmpo for the Most Valuable Player Award. Though Embiid missed the All-Defensive Teams last season, he was the Second Team selection for three straight years between 2018 and 2021. When he came back for the 76ers during the Eastern Conference semifinals, his presence on the court almost paralyzed the offense of the Miami Heat. Therefore, Embiid could greatly help France if he joined the national franchise. He is not a consistent 3-point shooter yet, but he has sharpened his middle-range shooting this season and become a productive scorer who can launch attacks by penetrating from high posts. As France's starting center and three-time NBA Defensive Player of the Year, Rudy Gobert couldn't find enough words to praise Embiid. "There's no player in the world like Joel Embiid," Gobert said in an interview with the 'Journal du Dimanche.' "So yes, I would like to see him one day with the jersey of the French team." "It is up to the coach (Vincent Collet) to make this decision. But no one can really say no to a talent like him. As long as it sticks to our team, our chemistry and our principles of play, and he is ready to adapt to it, he can be a very nice weapon for us," he added. Gobert revealed that he talked about selecting Embiid with Boris Diaw, general manager of the French national team. "I think he consulted with every player, which is a good thing. We'll see if it becomes a little more realistic or not, but it's interesting to have this kind of debate," Gobert said. Embiid can't play for France in the short term, which includes the FIBA EuroBasket in September, according to FIBA rules. But he should be able to appear in the FIBA Basketball World Cup in 2023 and the Paris Olympics in 2024. France, which will compete with the USA for championship in the two major tournaments, could use a powerful presence in the paint like Embiid. Gobert said he and Embiid talked about joining hands before. "With Joel, we talked about this possibility a few years ago. It wasn't concrete yet but he told me he would like to play with us. His urge, obviously, has not dissipated, even if it has not yet been trumpeted," he said. France are in Group K of the second round of the FIBA World Cup European qualifiers with Lithuania, Montenegro, the Czech Republic, Bosnia-Herzegovina and Hungary. The top three teams will advance to the next stage.