Since ancient times, Chinese traditional martial arts – Wushu – have been popular in Dongming County, the first place to meet the Yellow River in east China's Shandong Province. Fohan Quan originated there more than 160 years ago. Fohan Quan features strength and boldness.Waist pivots.Flying tiger palm.Twelve hands in four directions.It requires people to use their body like a bow, feet like a sickle and hands like arrows. When people practice Fohan Quan, it’s important to use the waist to drive the shoulders, the elbows, and then the hands. Always go straight to strike.Be stable, accurate, powerful and fast.There is a unique move called the "Iron claw". 60-year-old Li Haimin has been practicing Fohan Quan for many years. He usually runs four or five times a week to stay fit. "Practice requires persistence," Li says, and he thinks that the philosophy of Fohan Quan is the same as being an honest man. "Nothing flashy. It combines offense with defense, softness with hardness." Li learned Fohan Quan's "Iron claw" when he was about 12 years old. "Two people pull each other’s hands.After some time, all the blood in the entire body tends to flow to the fingertips.Your hands turn stiff and can feel swollen," Li explained as the basic finger practice for Fohan Quan, "and long-term practice can increase the density of the bones in the hand." At first, constant practice made Li's hands swell and hurt a lot. He got cold feet, but he persisted.After some time, when people grabbed his hands, he could hardly feel a thing. Millstones can help with testing finger strength. Li can push a heavy stone with four fingers and then easily pull it back. "You practice not only to strike, but also to be struck." An iron roller is helpful too, as it makes the muscles and skin of the upper limbs stronger and thicker, so that they can be as hard as steel in combat. The more Li practiced, the stronger he felt, but he gradually realized that there is no end to Wushu. "No one can say that they are unsurpassed.They may be stronger than most people, but that's it.There is always someone better than you.But don't hesitate to help others in need," Li said. Li told CGTN that practicing Wushu is a process of cultivating oneself, and so is living. "Fohan Quan embodies both hardness and softness.This reflects the philosophy of both Wushu and life," Li said.