The Phoenix Suns have reached a long-term contract extension with their head coach Monty Williams, reported ESPN on Saturday. Williams, 50, who was named the NBA Head Coach of the Year last season, still has two years left of the five-year deal he signed with the Suns in 2019. He helped the team secure a franchise record of 64 wins in the 2021-22 season. They also refreshed their team record of winning streak to 18 games while producing another three winning streaks of nine or more games. By contrast, the rest 29 teams in the league only combined four winning streaks of 9+games. The Suns' dominance came from their starting lineup that almost had no weakness. When Chris Paul was running the team's half-court offense, the ball always went to the most reliable scoring option, but the Suns had no problem speeding up for a scoring run to end the game in advance. Deandre Ayton is not a productive isolation player yet, but he has wider offensive coverage than most big men in the league. Not only can he fire outside the paint with floaters or middle range, he is also one of the most efficient finishers under the hoop. Mikal Bridges did a bit of everything, including penetration, cutting in and setting screen for shooter in off-ball movement. The major difference between him and most 3D (3-point shooting and defense) players was that Bridges could respond to the opponents' defense in the middle range. If the Suns found all of the above conventional weapons of theirs cease to work, Devin Booker would stand out to carry the offense. As the player who keeps the 70-point scoring record for one single game among the active NBA players, Booker has the complete isolation skills. Some of the moments when he made tough shots reminded both fans and his defenders of Kobe Bryant. It was Williams who spent three seasons helping the Suns grow into a team like this. In the last season before his arrival, they only won only 19 games and were nothing but a disunited team, failing to reach 40 wins for five consecutive seasons. Williams (and Paul) infused the Suns with discipline and taught them how to do what they do the best while winning. Of course, the Suns are not a perfect franchise and the very few weaknesses they still have proved lethal in the playoffs. For example, they don't have a defender able to guard MVP-level players like Luka Doncic; Paul's orchestrating would be limited when his individual attack was watered down; Booker still lacks the ability to break the double-teaming defense on him; Ayton has not found his best offensive trick yet. These are all issues for Williams to work on with his players to find solutions before they can be a legit championship contender, instead of only the leader, in the Western Conference.