The first Cross-Strait Youth Cultural and Creative Festival was launched in Yangzhou City, Jiangsu Province on Saturday. This year, the festival focuses on cultural and creative design. It also held the 5th "Moon City Cup" Yangzhou-Taiwan Cultural and Creative Design Competition, inviting young talents from both sides of the Taiwan Straits to join hands in the creative achievement of dreams. Taiwan youth Yu He-cong has followed his parents to Yangzhou for 16 years, and profoundly feels the importance of cross-strait cultural exchange. "I think this activity should continue to expand so that more Taiwan youth can understand the culture and development opportunities on the Chinese mainland and create a more cultural and in-depth brand," he said at the opening ceremony. The silver medal winner of last year's competition, Jiang Yalun, a student from the School of Art and Design, Yangzhou University, shared his feelings about his participation during the opening ceremony. "From what I saw inside the works of last year's Taiwan youth cultural and creative showcase, the Yangzhou Grand Canal pattern was incorporated into the cheongsam design. Such an innovative combination made me feel bright, and their perspective on the cultural and creative design is distinctive from ours," Jiang said in his speech. "We hope that, through this event, we can assist the youth on both sides of the Taiwan Straits to strengthen exchanges," said Yangzhou Vice Mayor Zhang Litao at the opening ceremony of the festival on Saturday. "At the same time, we sincerely hope that more young people from Taiwan will come to Yangzhou to visit and seek employment and development, to experience the magical charm of this thousand-year-old city where history and culture meet modern civilization." A wide variety of cultural and creative works are on display at the cross-strait festival, providing a visual feast for the public. People were enlightened by the arts on display while recognizing the exquisite skills, creative designs and humanistic sentiments of cross-strait youth artisans. Cross-strait youth have contributed their wisdom and strength to promote cross-strait cultural exchanges and development at this cultural and creative festival. They have also jointly shouldered the mission of the times to inherit, innovate and promote Chinese culture and continuously enhance cultural identity and firm cultural confidence.