Arsenal have signed Ukrainian defender Oleksandr Zinchenko from Manchester City, the Gunners announced on Friday. According to transfermarkt.com, it cost the club 35 million euros (about $35.7 million) to complete the deal. "To win the way we want to play and Alex has both of them. He's got the background, he's got experience of doing that, but as well, he wants a big role," Arsenal's manager Mikel Arteta said of Zinchenko. "He's in the stage of his career now that he's looking for another challenge and we could offer him as a club that challenge, and I could offer him as a coach, that role in the team." "First of all I would like to say this is a boyhood dream come true, because I was a massive fan when I was a kid. Since Thierry Henry and young Cesc Fabregas was playing here, I was just enjoying watching those games, that Arsenal. And obviously I started to love this club, so I am so excited and I cannot wait to play for this amazing club," Zinchenko said in an interview with the club's official website. Having played 125 games for City since he joined the team in 2016, Zinchenko won four Premier League titles and one FA Cup at the Etihad Stadium. He could play multiple positions in the backline and midfield, where Arsenal were vulnerable last season due to injuries. After signing Zinchenko, Arsenal became the leading spender during the summer transfer window in Europe with an expenditure of 132.06 million euros (about $134.71 million), more than Bayern Munich and City. That's very surprising considering that during Arsenal's latest prime years under Arsene Wenger, the Gunners were well-known for their money-saving operations. They rarely waived big cheques like other heavyweights did to lure star players on the transfer market. Instead, Arsenal focused on looking for young talents at low costs and grooming them. In most cases, Arsenal belonged to the side that sold stars for big prices. So far, Arsenal have completed several big purchases, including landing Brazilian Gabriel Jesus from City for 52.2 million euros (about $53.2 million), Portuguese midfielder Fabio Vieira from Porto for 35 million euros (about $35.7 million) and Zinchenko. The club finished ranking fifth in Premier League in the 2021-22 season. They were two points behind the fourth placed Tottenham Hotspur and away from the UEFA Champions League qualification. The last time they appeared in the tournament was six years ago.