Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi called on the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) to jointly uphold open regionalism and deepen their comprehensive strategic partnership on Monday. He made the remarks while addressing ASEAN Secretariat in Jakarta on Monday.  Wang congratulated ASEAN on its 55th anniversary, saying that the past 55 years have witnessed the extraordinary journey ASEAN has traveled and also has been "a golden era" for the development of Asia. The key to the Asian Miracle is the persistence of open regionalism, he said. 'Dynamic and fruitful' China-ASEAN relations Noting about China and ASEAN's joint efforts in fighting the COVID-10 pandemic, he said that relations between the two sides are the most dynamic and fruitful among ASEAN's dialogue partners. China and ASEAN are each other's largest trading partners. Bilateral trade has increased 100-fold from 30 years ago, and cumulative direct investment between the two sides has exceeded $310 billion, according to Wang. Practicing open regionalism Quoting Chinese President Xi Jinping's remarks that "openness is the lifeline of Asia-Pacific cooperation", he highlighted upholding the principle of peace, development, independence and inclusiveness and adhering to practicing open regionalism. The Chinese foreign minister further expounded on ways to practice open regionalism, highlighting the importance of peaceful coexistence, development, independence, and openness and inclusiveness. China follows win-win opening up strategy As the world's largest developing country and an important member of the Asian region, China follows the path of peaceful development and the win-win opening up strategy, he said. China will continue to support ASEAN centrality and promote regional solidarity and cooperation, and will continue to push for an Asian approach to resolving differences and disputes, he said. China will continue to pursue an open development strategy and promote regional economic integration, he said, adding that the country is willing to speed up implementing $150 billion import of agricultural products from ASEAN and import more high-quality products from ASEAN. China will continue to firmly promote cooperation in science, technology and innovation, and continue to promote Asian values, he said.