The annual college entrance examinations or Gaokao kicked off in Shanghai on Thursday, with 50,000 candidates sitting the exam, which will last for three days until this Saturday. Shanghai previously postponed Gaokao for about one month due to the COVID-19 outbreak. Candidates in Shanghai seem to be facing more obstacles than candidates in other areas in China as some are still enduring COVID-related containment measures. In addition, the Shanghai Meteorological Bureau issued a yellow alert for high temperatures on Thursday as temperatures are expected to exceed 35 degrees Celsius in most areas of the city. However, candidates are receiving assistance from various departments in Shanghai to help them take the exam more comfortably. COVID containment measures All Gaokao candidates in Shanghai were required to get two COVID-19 tests in three days before the exam. Candidates will also take a COVID-19 test at the exam center on Thursday and Friday. In addition, on the day of the exam, candidates are required to complete an antigen test before departing for the test site and wear an N95/KN95 mask on their way to and from the test center. Upon entering the test center, candidates must wear a mask throughout the test, except during the identity checking process. Candidates undergoing quarantine at designated facilities or other COVID-related control and prevention measures can take exams at emergency and centralized isolation test sites. Shanghai has set up different special test sites and formed closed-loop transfer teams in advance. Heat wave hits Shanghai According to the Shanghai Municipal Education Commission, air conditioners, ice cubes and other cooling methods have been employed to facilitate the candidates in lieu of the heatwave hitting the city. At the same time, test sites have taken appropriate measures against possible lightning, heavy rain and other extreme weather conditions. Police and traffic control To ensure that the exam goes smoothly, Shanghai Municipal Road Transport Administrative Bureau, Traffic Police Detachment and other departments have taken multiple measures. All districts in Shanghai have issued traffic guidelines for the examination sites to help escort the candidates. The traffic police will take temporary control measures on the roads close to the examination sites according to the actual situation. At the same time, for the convenience of parents picking up and dropping off candidates, many districts have set up temporary parking areas around the examination sites. Each year, during the college entrance exams, unexpected events occur, such as being late due to traffic congestion, candidates forgetting to bring identifications, or arriving the wrong exam site. The traffic police detachment of Shanghai Pudong Public Security Bureau will also start emergency services in this regard and the emergency police force will provide full assistance to the candidates.