Six-time champion Novak Djokovic reached his 13th Wimbledon quarterfinal on Sunday as injury-stricken rival Roger Federer revealed his desire to play at the All England Club "one more time." Top seed Djokovic, seeking to move level with Pete Sampras as a seven-time champion, defeated Dutch wild card Tim van Rijthoven, 6-2, 4-6, 6-1, 6-2. "He was very tough. I have never faced him before," said Djokovic after racking up a 25th successive win on grass. "He has a great serve, powerful forehand and nice touch." Earlier Sunday, 20-time major winner Djokovic had seen fifth seed Carlos Alcaraz, his scheduled last-eight opponent, beaten by Jannik Sinner. The 20-year-old Italian clinched a 6-1, 6-4, 6-7 (8/10), 6-3 win to set up a meeting with the top seed instead. Sinner, who had never won a grass court match before this Wimbledon, is the youngest man in the last-eight since Nick Kyrgios in 2014. "Carlos is a very tough opponent and a nice person. It's always a huge pleasure to play him," said Sinner after making the quarterfinals of a Grand Slam for the third time. The action on Centre Court was preceded by a parade of champions to mark the 100th anniversary of the stadium. One of those was eight-time champion Federer, who is sitting out the 2022 tournament as he continues his slow recovery from knee surgery. However, he insisted that he plans to be back in 2023, even though he will be within sight of his 42nd birthday. "I hope I can come back one more time," said the 20-time Grand Slam winner. "I've missed it here." Federer has been out of action since a quarter-final loss at Wimbledon last year before undergoing another bout of knee surgery. "I knew walking out here last year, it was going to be a tough year ahead," said Federer. "I maybe didn't think it was going to take this long to come back – the knee has been rough on me." After women's top seed Iga Swiatek was knocked out on Saturday, world No. 2 Ons Jabeur stayed on course for a maiden Slam title. The Tunisian made the last eight for a second successive year, beating Belgium's Elise Mertens 7-6 (11/9), 6-4. Jabeur, who will face Marie Bouzkova for a semifinal place, said she wanted to be a trailblazer for Arab and African players. "I wish I could really give that message to the young generation not just from my country but from the African continent," she said. Bouzkova, the world No. 66 from the Czech Republic, breezed past Caroline Garcia of France 7-5, 6-2. Mother-of-two Tatjana Maria is also through to her first Slam quarter-final, 15 years after her debut. The 34-year-old saved two match points to defeat former French Open champion Jelena Ostapenko 5-7, 7-5, 7-5.