China's industrial activities are continuing a recovery trend following recent COVID-19 outbreaks, led by production in high-tech industries. The country's industrial output jumped 3.4 percent annually in the first half of 2022, data from the National Bureau of Statistics (NBS) showed earlier. During the January-June period, high-tech manufacturing saw a 9.6-percent increase from the first six month last year, significantly higher than other industries. "The production of most industries has rebounded," said Tao Qing, an official of Ministry of Industry and Information Technology, in a press conference on Tuesday. "Among the 41 major industrial sectors, 33 industries have achieved positive growth in the first half of the year, nine of which have achieved double-digit growth rates." In June alone, China's industrial output jumped 3.9 percent from last year, led by strong new energy vehicle (NEV) production, according to the NBS. Output growth was 3.2 percentage points higher than in May, adding to signs that the country's economy is further recovering from recent COVID-19 outbreaks. In April, factory output declined 2.9 percent compared to the same month in 2021, as a new wave of the coronavirus spread across China slowed down business activities and production. As an economic indicator, the growth of industrial output is used to measure the activity of designated large enterprises with an annual business turnover of at least 20 million yuan ($2.96 million). Breaking it down by sectors, NEV production increased the most with a 120.8-percent rise as the world's largest auto market continued to recover with measures to boost NEV consumption. Read more: China's NEV sales see strong monthly growth in June China unveils plans to promote NEV sales, second-hand car trading The coal mining and washing sector soared by 11.2 percent, while the oil and natural gas mining industry was up by 3.6 percent when compared with June 2021. China's economy expanded 2.5 percent yearly in the first half of 2022. In the second quarter alone, the country's gross domestic product only grew 0.4 percent from the same period last year. "China's economy encountered increasing downward pressure in the second quarter due to unexpected factors both at home and abroad, but with recent supportive policies and getting COVID-19 outbreaks under control, the economy has the momentum to stabilize and rebound," Fu Linghui, spokesperson of NBS, said last Friday. Read more: China's June exports growth quickens as production recovers, imports grow slower