Southern China's Shenzhen City held a light show titled "Deep Love" to celebrate the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland. The buildings in the main streets of Shenzhen were lit up in the color of the Chinese national flag, symbolizing happiness, good fortune and prosperity. There were words like "Blessings to Hong Kong," "Better Tomorrow" and "Greater Future for the Greater Bay Area." They convey a promising message for the future of Hong Kong as a region actively integrating into the overall national development and writing a new chapter in the successful practice of the "One Country, Two Systems" policy. They also envision the future of Shenzhen and Hong Kong and the advantages of co-prosperity and sharing a better tomorrow. Shenzhen is just 50 kilometers north of downtown Hong Kong. The city has a special and close bond with the region. Twenty-five years ago, over 200,000 Shenzhen residents took to the streets on June 30, to see off the People's Liberation Army on their journey to Hong Kong. For all Chinese people, it was a moment of pride and honor to have Hong Kong back. Quotes from Shenzhen who stressed that today's prosperity and happy life come from a strong national government and an effective municipal government can be read below. "I feel very happy. How time flies! It has been 25 years since Hong Kong returned to China. Today's light show is to celebrate the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return. May our motherland be stronger and better." "My deepest impression is of the bauhinia, which symbolizes prosperity, and blood relationship. Hong Kong is an indispensable part of the motherland, I hope that Hong Kong can flourish in the arms of the motherland, and wish the motherland will prosper." "We used to know Hong Kong from books, but now we are able to set foot on the land of Hong Kong, to feel how prosperous its economy is, and what changes has the "One Country, Two Systems" policy brought to Hong Kong. We've experienced what the previous generation of people could never do." "The 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return is a significant milestone for our motherland. Over the past century, we Chinese found our voices by having Hong Kong back, and we see the success of the 'One Country, Two Systems' policy implemented in Hong Kong." "This is the 25th year I have been in Guangdong. I didn't feel so strongly about Hong Kong's return to China 25 years ago. But now, I realize how important the "One Country, Two Systems" policy is. Stability comes from a strong government and an effective municipal government. Thanks to our powerful and promising country, our generation has enjoyed the dividends behind it." "25 years ago, we young people hung out all night in Shenzhen's South avenue, after we saw off the People's Liberation Army to Hong Kong. We were so excited at that time. Today's prosperity and happy life don't come easy. We want to thank the motherland, the Communist Party of China." "I hope that through the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area, Hong Kong can take off again, along with Shenzhen." In the past two months, many other places, like Guangzhou and Macao in the Greater Bay Area, have held colorful celebrations. And a series of supportive policies have been announced to boost cooperation between Hong Kong and other cities in the Greater Bay Area. For example, The University of Hong Kong signed a framework agreement on strategic cooperation with the authorities in Qianhai to promote technology innovation between the two cities and explore rules convergence. Qianhai also released a list of beneficial policies for young people from Hong Kong, including jobs, housing, entrepreneurship and finance Data shows that a total of 12,000 Hong Kong companies have settled in the Qianhai Cooperation zone. And the registered capital of Hong Kong-invested companies in Qianhai reached 1.3 trillion yuan. With more beneficial policies, the mainland cities in the Greater Bay Area will serve as the center for bold, innovative change, and hopefully a magnet for the youth of Hong Kong.