The Chinese men's national basketball team has secured a spot in the next stage of the 2023 FIBA Basketball World Cup Asian qualifiers after the first two games of the current round in Australia on Thursday and Friday. China lost to Australia 76-69 but then beat Chinese Taipei 94-58 for a 3-1 record in Group B. As Japan, who lost both games to China previously, were defeated by the Boomers 98-52 on Friday, China are locked in as one of the group's top three teams to qualify for the next stage. Zhou Qi was one of China's best-performing players, dropping a double-double of 16 points and 17 rebounds against Australia and 21 points, eight rebounds and four blocks against Chinese Taipei. Having played one season in the South East Melbourne Phoenix in Australia's National Basketball League, Zhou has improved a lot in rebounding and grown a lot tougher. Though Australia didn't bring their best players to the qualification tournament, the team was still world-class in tussling. Zhou didn't back off at all from the opponents' physical contact. On the contrary, he kept drawing double-teaming by exploiting his offensive threat, which led to many open 3-pointers for his teammates. Hu Mingxuan was another happy surprise for China in the qualifiers. He was the first to find his touch against Australia. Then against Chinese Taipei the following day, Hu stood out again when his team couldn't find their pace on the court. He tore the opponents' defense with sharp penetrations, helping China extend a 10-point lead quickly. Hu's 26 points in a predictable win over Chinese Taipei proved the icebreaker that led his team to step up after a first-half struggle. Hu recalled that coach Du Feng shot at the whole team during the halftime break, but the criticism energized the franchise to do better in the second half. China will play the two same teams again on Sunday and July 4. Since the results won't affect the team's promotion to the next stage of qualifiers, Du wants to take advantage of the games as an opportunity to help some players find form. After finishing the competitions in Australia, China will go to Indonesia for the FIBA Asia Cup. "The Asia Cup will be the first intercontinental tournament for the Chinese national team since we assembled. Everyone is looking forward to participating in it," Du said. "It will be a great test for us. The World Cup will happen soon after the Asia Cup. Our team can take this opportunity to refine themselves."