Asia News Wrap: 25 years since Hong Kong's return to the motherland and more … From around Asia, here are a few stories that happened this week you may have missed … On Friday, Hong Kong celebrated the 25th anniversary of its return to the motherland. Chinese President Xi Jinping traveled to the city to join in the celebrations and swear in John Lee as the chief executive of the sixth-term government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR). President Xi said the practice of "One Country, Two Systems" has achieved success in the HKSAR and added that since its return to the motherland, the city has made irreplaceable contributions to the long-term, steady and fast economic development of the motherland. Further east, Japan suffered its hottest day on Wednesday, in the worst heatwave since records began. The BBC reported that Tokyo touched temperatures above 40 degrees Celsius this week, marking the worst documented streak of hot weather in June since records began in 1875. The heat drew official warnings of a power shortage and led to calls for people to conserve energy where possible. The Japan Times reported the weekly tally of people taken to hospitals by ambulance due to heatstroke rose to a record high for June according to the Fire and Disaster Management Agency. In Southeast Asia, Indonesian President Joko Widodo announced formally on Wednesday that a new national capital is being constructed. The Jakarta Post reported that the mega project, a key part of Joko Widodo's economic agenda, would see Indonesia move its capital from the heavily congested Jakarta to Nusantara, an underdeveloped area in East Kalimantan. The president visited the site of a dam on Wednesday and said construction was to begin next month on a new road to Nusantara. In South Asia, Sri Lanka suspended the sale of fuel for non-essential vehicles as it faces its worst economic crisis since independence. On Monday, the government said it would ban private vehicles from buying petrol and diesel until July 10. For the next two weeks, only buses, trains and vehicles used for medical services and transporting food will be allowed to buy fuel. Schools in urban areas have shut, while residents have been asked to work from home. (Cover: The stage for the celebration of the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland and the inauguration ceremony of the sixth-term government of the HKSAR, Hong Kong, July 1, 2022. /CFP)