Indonesian President Joko Widodo and visiting Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi agreed to foster new growth points and deepen cooperation in various areas between the two countries on Monday in the capital city of Jakarta. When meeting with Wang, Widodo expressed his appreciation for China for its strong support to Indonesia as the Group of 20 (G20) rotating presidency and spoke highly of the outcomes achieved at the Second Meeting of China-Indonesia High-level Dialogue Cooperation Mechanism. Indonesia hopes to deepen cooperation with China in such areas as trade and economy, investment, digital economy and green development, he noted. Both sides should strengthen coordination and integration so as to jointly push forward major Belt and Road projects, including the Jakarta-Bandung High-Speed Railway, said the president. Indonesia encourages more Chinese enterprises to invest and open businesses in the country, and will provide convenience and facilitation for them, he said. Wang congratulated Indonesia on successfully hosting the G20 foreign ministers' meeting in Bali, which highlighted the significant role Indonesia plays as a representative of major developing countries and emerging economies and sent a positive signal of tackling global challenges in solidarity. China will fully support Indonesia in hosting the G20 summit, and jointly bring Asia's role into play and contribute Asia's power to global recovery. Since the COVID-19 outbreak, Wang said, the leaders of the two countries have carried out close communication and interaction, providing strategic guidance for the high-level development of bilateral relations and injecting strong impetus into their joint fight against COVID-19 and efforts for economic recovery. The two sides have fully implemented the important consensus reached by the two heads of state, forged a new pattern of bilateral cooperation featuring "four-wheel drive" in political, economic, cultural and maritime aspects, and determined the direction of building a China-Indonesia community with a shared future, which opened up broad new prospects for bilateral ties, Wang said. The two sides should demonstrate the strong momentum of solidarity and coordination between major developing countries, further deepen their practical cooperation across the board, work for the completion and opening of the Jakarta-Bandung High-Speed Railway as scheduled, achieve the early harvest of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Corridor as soon as possible, and foster new growth points of the digital economy, green development and blue economy. Wang is on a Southeast Asia tour, which takes him to Myanmar, Thailand, the Philippines, Indonesia and Malaysia. (Cover: Indonesian President Joko Widodo meets with visiting Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi in Jakarta, Indonesia, July 11, 2022. /Chinese Foreign Ministry)