The European Union's foreign policy chief said Tuesday he has submitted a new draft text to revive the 2015 Iran nuclear deal, saying there is no room left for further major compromises. "I have now put on the table a text that addresses, in precise detail, the sanctions lifting as well as the nuclear steps needed to restore the JCPOA," the EU's Josep Borrell wrote in an essay in the Financial Times. He was referring to the 2015 deal called the Joint Comprehensive Plan of Action. "After 15 months of intense, constructive negotiations in Vienna and countless interactions with the JCPOA participants and the U.S., I have concluded that the space for additional significant compromises has been exhausted," he added. "It is not a perfect agreement, but it addresses all essential elements and includes hard-won compromises by all sides." It comes after Iran warned on Monday it would not be rushed into a "quick" deal reviving its faltering 2015 nuclear accord with world powers, as negotiations in Vienna remain deadlocked. Iran's chief nuclear negotiator Ali Bagheri wrote on Twitter on Tuesday: "The Coordinator has shared his ideas to conclude the negotiations. We, too, have our own ideas, both in substance and form, to conclude the negotiations which would be shared." Iranian President Ebrahim Raisi said on Tuesday that the conclusion of talks for the salvage of the 2015 nuclear deal requires U.S. determination, according to the official IRNA news agency. U.S. State Department spokesman Ned Price told reporters that Washington was reviewing the "draft understanding" Borrell shared with Iran and other parties to the 2015 deal and would respond directly to the EU. Iran signed the nuclear deal with the world powers in July 2015, agreeing to curb its nuclear program in return for the removal of sanctions on the country. However, former U.S. President Donald Trump abruptly pulled Washington out of the agreement in May 2018 and reimposed unilateral sanctions on Iran, prompting the latter to drop some of its commitments under the pact. Talks to revive the deal began in April 2021 in Vienna but were suspended in March this year because of political differences between Tehran and Washington. Both sides held indirect talks in Qatar late in June but failed to settle their differences. "If the deal is rejected, we risk a dangerous nuclear crisis, set against the prospect of increased isolation for Iran and its people. It is our joint responsibility to conclude the deal," said Borrell. (With input from agencies)