China has launched a campaign to help unemployed college graduates and young people under the age of 35 secure jobs, in a year when a record 10.76 million graduates stream out of colleges. This year's job hunting is challenging for graduates due to the COVID-19 pandemic. The unemployment rate among those aged 16-24, a group that includes new college graduates, rose to 18.4 percent in May, according to the National Bureau of Statistics. To help the graduates and maintain employment stability, nine pro-employment measures have been outlined, and will last until December, according to a circular released by the Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security on June 24. Recruitment activities have been held frequently with on-the-ground events being organized. In June, a large-scale job fair was held in Chengdu, the capital city of Sichuan Province in southwest China. There were over 1,400 companies providing 30,000 jobs, among which 60 percent were for new graduates. From June, Chengdu plans to hold 976 recruitment fairs in a span of 3 months. Job registration apps as well as online and offline employment services are also launched. In south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, job-seeking graduates can register on these platforms, after which tailored services will be offered in 5 days according to their conditions, preferences and requirements. Across the country, a series of targeted pro-employment campaigns were launched, such as incentivize firms to increase their staff headcount, open more civil servant vacancies for fresh graduates, as well as encourage young generation to start their businesses. There are also occupational training sessions and employment counseling for vulnerable groups, such as families that have previously shaken off poverty and low-income households. College graduates are regarded as the priority of China's employment policy. The Ministry of Human Resources and Social Security initiated a nationwide online recruiting platform that will last till August 25 to promote over 10 million openings. (Cover photo via CFP)