China Media Group (CMG) launched a large-scale documentary dedicated to tracing the origin and evolution of the Chinese civilization, on Tuesday in Beijing. A multi-series documentary, the project is based on the personal experiences of cultural and museum workers and combines the use of new technologies, such as XR+, free-viewpoint video, digital modeling and large-scale 3D scanning. It highlights the research findings of the Chinese Civilization Exploration Project, and other archaeological findings to restore historical scenes through inferential imagination. China has put great emphasis on the country's cultural identity to build a proper historical and cultural cognition of Chinese cultural characteristics and highlight the visual image of the Chinese nation. CMG has been pouring efforts into promoting programs that inherit classical Chinese culture, said Shen Haixiong, president of CMG, in his remarks at the ceremony. Discovering the glorious national spirit from the rich cultural heritage is not only the meaning of protecting and inheriting cultural heritage, but also a critical path to making Chinese cultural heritage "more alive," he said, adding that Chinese civilization is extensive and profound and has a long history stretching back to antiquity. CMG will continue to present traditional Chinese cultural programs and never stop tracing and eulogizing the great civilization created by the sages, Shen said. Li Qun, Vice Minister of Culture and Tourism and Director of the National Cultural Heritage Administration, said at the ceremony that the documentary is a specific initiative to promote China's efforts in the archaeological research of cultural relics. The documentary is another vivid practice of telling the stories about cultural relics and inheriting and passing on the Chinese civilization, he said. The National Cultural Heritage Administration will guide local cultural heritage departments and museums to continue to increase collaboration with media organizations and launch more brilliant programs and activities to promote traditional Chinese culture, Li said. The much-anticipated multi-series documentary will air on TV channel CCTV-1 in August, with the expectation of presenting the first six series before the end of 2022.