China stands ready to actively participate in cooperation with Mozambique under the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), senior Chinese diplomat Yang Jiechi said on Monday. Yang, a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and director of the Office of the Foreign Affairs Commission of the CPC Central Committee, made the remarks during a meeting with Mozambican President Filipe Nyusi in Maputo, the capital of Mozambique. China is ready to promote cooperation with Mozambique in fields such as infrastructure construction, agriculture and energy to achieve more outcomes, Yang said. Nyusi said Mozambique is willing to deepen mutually beneficial cooperation with China under the BRI. Proposed by China in 2013, the BRI comprises the Silk Road Economic Belt and the 21st Century Maritime Silk Road, and aims to build trade and infrastructure networks connecting Asia with Europe and Africa along and beyond the ancient Silk Road routes. Yang said China firmly supports Mozambique in exploring a development path in line with its own conditions and supports the country's efforts to safeguard its security and stability. China is willing to engage in all-round exchanges with Mozambique, further deepen their political mutual trust, and support each other on issues involving their respective core interests and major concerns, he said. China congratulates Mozambique on its election as a non-permanent member of the United Nations Security Council in June, he said. China supports Mozambique to play a constructive role in maintaining international peace and security, and supports resolving African issues in an African way, he said. China stands ready to work with Mozambique to jointly make greater contributions to the stability, prosperity and development of Africa and the world, he added. Nyusi congratulated the 101st anniversary of the founding of the CPC and wished a success for the 20th CPC National Congress later this year.He hailed the traditional friendship and fruitful cooperation between the two countries and their ruling parties, describing them as "reliable good partners." He thanked China for supporting Mozambique's economic and social development and its fight against COVID-19. Mozambique is firmly committed to developing friendship with China and firmly adheres to the one-China policy, he said. Mozambique is ready to enhance communication and coordination with China in international affairs and jointly address the profound changes in the international situation and various challenges, he said.Yang also met with Mozambican Minister of Foreign Affairs and Cooperation Veronica Macamo during the visit.Mozambique is the last stop of Yang's four-nation tour, following his visits to Pakistan, the United Arab Emirates and Zimbabwe.