Lovers of art in Hong Kong and indeed the whole world are in for a treat: a new cultural landmark has just opened in Hong Kong's West Kowloon Cultural District. Officially opening its doors to the public on July 3, 2022, the eagerly anticipated Hong Kong Palace Museum will house more than 900 precious cultural relics from the world-class collection of the Palace Museum in Beijing, many of which are making their debut appearance in the Special Administrative Region. From paintings and drawings to embroidery, calligraphy, jewelry, sculpture and porcelain, visitors to this innovative museum and its nine galleries will be able to enjoy unprecedented close-up access to the artistic legacy of 5,000 years of Chinese civilization – all just a stone's throw from the hustle and bustle of downtown Hong Kong! What's more, the opening of the museum heralds a new era in the outreach efforts of the Beijing Palace Museum. Never before in its almost a century-long history has such an exchange of relics and exhibits taken place. Or, to quote the words of Louis Ng, curator of the Hong Kong Palace Museum, "This is a great gift from the motherland to Hong Kong.” In recognition of this landmark event, the two-part documentary series "Hong Kong Palace Museum" chronicles the behind-the-scenes story of the efforts that went into making this cutting-edge museum a reality, showing how architects, builders, scholars and curators from Hong Kong and Beijing joined hands to build a new palace museum in Hong Kong from almost nothing in just 1,000 days. Few have any doubts about the contribution the museum is bound to make to the cultural scene in Hong Kong and the world. As Henry Tang, chairman of the West Kowloon Cultural District Authority Board, has said, "Hong Kong is a multicultural and inclusive international metropolis. The museum can serve as a platform to introduce the rich Chinese culture to a wider audience in the world.” "Hong Kong Palace Museum" airs on CGTN Documentary on July 7, 2022. Join the creators who masterminded this grand project and witness the birth of the Hong Kong Palace Museum!