More big deals have been reached during this NBA free agency period, the most shocking of which was the trade that saw three-time Defensive Player of the Year Rudy Gobert travel from the Utah Jazz to the Minnesota Timberwolves. The blockbuster move cost the Timberwolves significant assets. According to ESPN, the team will send Patrick Beverley, Malik Beasley, Jarred Vanderbilt, Leandro Bolmaro and Walker Kessler – four future first-round draft picks (protected for 2023, 2025, 2027 and top-five protected for 2029) and a 2026 pick swap to the Jazz. Considering that Gobert had fallen out with the other ace on the team, Donovan Mitchell, either was likely to leave this summer, if not both. Danny Ainge, who took over as the Jazz CEO in December 2021, did an excellent job of maximizing the trading value of the French giant. The Timberwolves made the playoffs in the 2021-22 season and played six physical games against the Memphis Grizzlies in the first round of the postseason, thanks to their improved, aggressive defense. Both Beverley and Vanderbilt have made key contributions to the team's performance, but the arrival of Gobert is likely to lift the Timberwolves' defense to a new level. Karl-Anthony Towns, who is one of the best offensive centers and one of the worst defensive options in his position, will appear more in the power forward position. He averaged two triples at 41 percent last season and should be able to make it easier for Gobert to make easy shots under the hoop. Zach LaVine agrees to a five-year, $215 million contract extension with the Chicago Bulls, according to Klutch Sports CEO Rich Paul The four-year, $78 million contract LaVine signed with the Bulls in 2018 ended this summer, making him an unrestricted free agent. The team has shown enough goodwill to build a competitive squad around the All-Star guard since then by landing Nikola Vucevic and DeMar DeRozan. They made the playoffs in the 2021-22 season, which was partly why LaVine decided to stay. The Bulls also kept Derrick Jones Jr. and introduced Andre Drummond on a two-year $6.3 million deal each. Boston Celtics trade Malcolm Brogdon from the Indiana Pacers, according to ESPN This could have been the headline trade if the Gobert deal hadn't happened. The Celtics gave up Daniel Theis, Aaron Nesmith, Nik Stauskas, Malik Fitts, Juwan Morgan and a 2023 first-rounder for Brogdon. The 29-year-old two-way guard averaged 19.1 points, 5.1 rebounds and 5.9 assists for the Pacers in the 2021-22 season. His orchestrating ability is exactly what the Celtics need, which was proved via the team's loss to the Golden State Warriors in the Finals in June. The Celtics also landed Danilo Garllinari, who was released by the San Antonio Spurs, on a two-year $13 million contract. The 33-year-old Italian scorer can be a good offensive weapon off the bench if he stays healthy. Zion Williamson finalizing a five-year, $193 million extension with the New Orleans Pelicans, according to The Athletic Like Ja Morant's extension with the Grizzlies, Williamson's new deal can be worth up to $231 million if he is named for any of the All-NBA Teams or wins the NBA Most Valuable Player Award. However, considering the fact that Williamson only played 85 games for the Pelicans in the past three seasons, he will have a lot to work on to earn the extra money. The surgery to fix his fractured right foot cost Williamson the whole 2021-22 season, but the origins of his problems were overweight, which once reportedly reached over 149 kilograms, and his reliance on athleticism. The Pelicans' offer is sincere, but they have every reason to add clauses related to health and appearances to his contract. Other interesting agreements were reached on Friday. The Golden State Warriors, who saw four of their champion team, Gary Payton II, Juan-Toscano Anderson, Nemanja Bjelica and Otto Porter Jr. leave, finally made their moves. The team first kept starting center Kevon Looney on a three-year, $25.5 million extension and then acquired free agent Donte DiVincenzo with a two-year, $9.3 million deal. Looney was an integral member of the Warriors on their way to winning the title last season with his remarkable rebounding, especially on the offensive glass. DiVincenzo can shoulder some of Payton II's defensive duties, but he is a much better choice on the offensive front. He made 2.1 triples at 36.8 percent per game for the Sacramento Kings last season. Traditional centers Jusuf Nurkic and Mitchell Robinson got good contract extensions. The Portland Trail Blazers agreed to a four-year, $70 million deal with Nurkic, and the New York Knicks kept Robinson with a four-year, $60 million contract. The market in recent years has not been kind to big men who can't make shots from the perimeter unless they can make extra contributions. Nurkic is a top screener in the league and has underestimated passing ability. Robinson is an elite blocker who denied 1.8 shots per game last season.