Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Friday met with French Foreign Minister Catherine Colonna on the sidelines of the Group of 20 (G20) Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Bali, Indonesia, with both sides vowing to improve bilateral ties and deepen China-EU cooperation. Under the strategic guidance of the heads of state of the two countries, Sino-French relations have maintained a steady momentum of development, which not only brings greater benefits to the two peoples, but also injects stability into a volatile world, Wang pointed out. China values the mutual trust and friendship between the two countries, he said, adding China highly appreciates and firmly supports France's adherence to strategic autonomy, and is willing to strengthen strategic cooperation with France, deepen pragmatic cooperation and promote the comprehensive strategic partnership between the two countries to reach a new level. For her part, Colonna noted France and China have maintained close communication and good cooperation on a wide range of bilateral and multilateral issues. The French side also values the bilateral friendship and is committed to continuously promoting the bilateral comprehensive strategic partnership, she noted. Noting France will consistently uphold the tradition of strategic autonomy, Colonna said France firmly believes in upholding the UN Charter and respecting the principle of sovereignty, values China's important role in maintaining global stability, and believes that strengthening strategic coordination between France and China is essential to address current global challenges. The two sides agreed to promote people-to-people exchanges and strengthen cooperation in addressing climate change and protecting biodiversity. The two sides also exchanged views on China-EU relations. The Chinese foreign minister said that as two major forces with global influence, China and Europe should adhere to the main thrust of win-win cooperation and the basic orientation of their comprehensive strategic partnership. China appreciates and expects the French side to continue to play a constructive role for China-EU relations, Wang said. Colonna said that the French side always supports the advancement of Europe-China relations and advocates the accumulation of consensus through dialogue. She added the French side will continue to keep an eye on the future, adhere to rationality, maintain openness and deepen Europe-China cooperation in various fields. The two sides also exchanged views on international and regional issues of common concern, such as Ukraine and the Korean Peninsula.