Shaolin Kungfu includes the use of fists and weapons. According to Shaolin records, it has both long and short weapons. The meteor hammer is a soft weapon, a metal head tied to a rope that can swing and strike by surprise. Chen Tongchuan, 54, is the headmaster of the Dengfeng Wushu School in central China's Henan Province. He has been practicing Wushu for more than 40 years. The meteor hammer is his best practice. The meteor hammer is a soft weapon and also a hidden weapon. It is easy to hide and carry. Inertia can be generated from swinging and wrapping the rope. The surprise effect comes from the strength of the hands, feet, and elbows. It is fast and stealthy, greatly extending the attacking range. The next attack is ready at the withdrawal of the previous one. You may get hurt before you get familiar with the weapon. Chen Tongchuan once hit his face with a hammer and had to get stitches in the hospital. Then he used a sandbag to replace the hammer for practice, which is less dangerous. There's no shortcut to practicing the hammer. Practice makes perfect. It's all about persistence and passion. You can have a routine after mastering the basic skills. Accuracy is the core of hidden weapons, including the meteor hammer. When you are good at the basic skills, you need to focus more on the practice of accuracy. When Chen first started, his movements were not accurate enough, so he put an object in front of him to increase accuracy. After mastering the basic skills, it was time to go deeper. You need a rope and hammer that fit you the best. Also, you have to understand the connection between these two objects. Chen Tongchuan has been practicing Wushu since he was young. He wanted to guide his students with the essence of Wushu when he became the headmaster. His students are in a period of youth rebellion. If you try to control them by force, it will not work well, so you need to guide them. "These kids are from various places in the country, thousands of kilometers away from home. Their parents trust me, so I have the responsibility of taking good care of them," said Chen. There are rules to practice the meteor hammer. If you violate the rules, you may get entangled and hurt. "As a student, if you don't follow the rules, your life might go astray and become a mess," he said. Chen wants to manage and educate students to correct their behaviors. As a headmaster, he believes his greatest responsibility is to teach the children well and help them adapt to society.