In the coming week, the seventh Lancang-Mekong Cooperation Foreign Ministers' Meeting will be held in Myanmar and the G20 Foreign Ministers' Meeting will begin in Indonesia. Switzerland will host an international conference on reconstruction in Ukraine. Chinese FM to attend high-level international meetings From July 3 to 14, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi will chair the seventh Lancang-Mekong Cooperation Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Myanmar and attend the G20 Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Indonesia. Wang will also pay official visits to Thailand, the Philippines, Indonesia and Malaysia and host the second Meeting of China-Indonesia High-level Dialogue Cooperation Mechanism, Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian announced on July 1. In addition, Wang will chair the 14th Meeting of the China-Vietnam Steering Committee for Bilateral Cooperation and the sixth Meeting of China-Cambodia Intergovernmental Coordination Committee in Nanning, the capital city of south China's Guangxi Zhuang Autonomous Region, the spokesperson said. International conference on Ukraine reconstruction Leaders from dozens of countries and international organizations will travel to Lugano, Switzerland on July 4 for a two-day conference on the reconstruction of Ukraine. As well as pledging funds for reconstruction, “the conference will be about reforms that can still be implemented in the present situation” of continued crisis in Ukraine, Swiss President Ignazio Cassis told the World Economic Forum in Davos in May. The conference discussions will focus on rebuilding and development, as well as on contributions from international partners. Day by day: Monday: U.S President Joe Biden addresses the nation on Independence Day; a two-day international conference on the reconstruction of Ukraine begins in Switzerland; the seventh Lancang-Mekong Cooperation Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Myanmar continues (July 2-5). Tuesday: The United Nations High-level Political Forum on Sustainable Development begins (July 5-7 and July 11-15) in New York. Wednesday: UK PM Boris Johnson appears before the heads of parliamentary committees. Thursday: A quiet day in politics. Friday: G20 Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Indonesia. Saturday-Sunday: Quiet days in politics. (With input from agencies)