General Li Zuocheng, member of China's Central Military Commission (CMC) and chief of the Joint Staff Department under the CMC, spoke with General Mark Milley, chairman of the U.S. Joint Chiefs of Staff, via video link at the latter's request on Thursday. The two sides agreed that it is in the common interest of both countries to maintain stable development of the military-to-military relationship and avoid conflicts and confrontations, vowing to stay in communication with each other in this regard. Li noted that Chinese President Xi Jinping stressed China and the U.S. should respect each other, coexist peacefully and cooperate for win-win results. He said China attaches great importance to U.S. President Joe Biden's positive remarks of "five assurances" on many occasions (i.e. the U.S. does not seek a new Cold War with China, the U.S. does not seek to change China's system, the revitalization of U.S. alliances is not against China, the U.S. does not support "Taiwan independence", and the U.S. is not looking for conflict with China). Li pointed out that as long as the two sides follow the strategic guidance of the leaders of the two countries and implement the important consensus they reached, China and the U.S. can achieve common development and mutual achievements. Under the current circumstances, the two militaries should practice mutual respect, uphold an objective and rational attitude, further strengthen dialogue, manage risks and promote cooperation, rather than deliberately creating confrontation, provoking trouble and mutual exclusion, he said. The senior Chinese military official also urged the U.S. to abide by the one-China principle and the provisions of the three China-U.S. joint communiques and stop turning back the wheel of history. Li also voiced China's firm opposition to any military collusion between the United States and China's Taiwan region, warning such overtures will undermine China-U.S. relations and stability across the Taiwan Straits. On issues concerning China's sovereignty and territorial integrity and other core interests, China has no room for compromise or concession, Li reiterated, adding if anyone wantonly provokes, the Chinese people will respond firmly. "The Chinese military will resolutely safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity," he added. The two sides also exchanged views on maritime and air force military security and the Ukraine crisis. It's the fourth "meeting" between Chinese and U.S. senior officials in the past 30 days. Read more: Chinese defense minister urges U.S. to view China's development rationally China rejects competition with U.S. in bilateral talks Chinese, U.S. senior officials hold video talk on economic issues