As lyrics of a popular folk song in China goes, "the brothers and sisters from the 56 ethnic groups belong to the same family." China is home to 56 ethnic groups - the majority Han makes up around 91.5 percent of the country's population along with 55 ethnic minorities, according to 2021 data. Northwest China's Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region has been a multi-ethnic region since ancient times and, right now, it consists of over 45 ethnic groups. Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, paid a visit to Urumqi, capital of Xinjiang, from Tuesday afternoon to Wednesday morning. On Wednesday morning, he watched a show called "Manas", which is from the Kirgiz ethnic minority at the Museum of the Xinjiang Uygur Autonomous Region. The performances have been inscribed as an intangible cultural heritage. A cultural heritage like "Manas" is a treasure of both the Kirgizs and the Chinese nation, President Xi said, urging better preservation and promotion efforts. The president added that the extensive and profound Chinese civilization is composed of outstanding cultures of various ethnic groups. Xi urges officials to better respond to the needs of the people While visiting the Guyuanxiang residential community in the Tianshan District on Wednesday morning, Xi urged local officials to put more effort into community-level work to better learn and respond to the needs of the people. A lot of work must be done by relying on communities, Xi noted, adding that he attaches great importance to the work at the community level. Xi also called for strengthening Party organizations at the community level and improving services in communities to benefit residents of all ethnic groups. Xinjiang, a hub in Belt and Road cooperation As Belt and Road cooperation advances, Xinjiang is no longer a remote corner but a core area and a hub, President Xi pointed out during his Tuesday afternoon inspection in Urumqi International Land Port Area. Remarkable progress has been made since the Belt and Road Initiative was proposed, Xi said, telling the staff at the land port area that their work is of great significance. While acknowledging the progress they have made, Xi encouraged them on to even greater success. The 'irreplaceable' Corps Xi traveled to Shihezi City on Wednesday afternoon, where he inspected the officials and staff workers at the Xinjiang Production and Construction Corps (XPCC), a group whose status he called "irreplaceable." Speaking to XPCC officials and staff workers, Xi said he was pleased about the great progress made by the XPCC in reform and development, and XPCC officials and staff workers themselves should also be proud. He stressed efforts to make the Corps stronger and more prosperous. Xi also expressed his hope that XPCC officials and staff workers will carry forward the spirit of the XPCC, continue to work hard, step up reform, and make down-to-earth and persistent efforts to make the XPCC stronger and more prosperous. During his stay in Shihezi City, Xi also learned about the history of the XPCC in cultivating and guarding the frontier areas, as well as the Corps' efforts in strengthening its primary-level organizations, developing specialty agriculture, and promoting the integrated development of the Corps and local areas.