Tai Chi is a popular school of Chinese kung fu marked with slow and gentle movements that are designed for defense, strengthening of physique and prevention of diseases. Concentrating on correct posture and breathing control, Tai Chi' s movements are fluid, graceful and well balanced, promoting the complete harmony of body and mind. 22-year-old Liang Biying is a Tai Chi athlete, after winning the women's Tai Chi in the World Wushu Championships in 2019, Liang Biying retired from the Guangdong provincial sports team. In her view, Tai Chi is an inclusive sport. It can be static and dynamic, and its styles are diverse. The essence of Tai Chi advocates moderation and restraint. It emphasizes smooth and decent moves. In terms of breathing, this should be deep, long, quiet and even. And for strength, it should be loose, flexible, elastic and shaking. For competitive Tai Chi, Liang Biying would rather call it "modern" Tai Chi. Traditional Tai Chi pursues certain forms and body positions.Now that we have added some difficulties to it, it's become more competitive and ornamental. The rules are strict in deducting points. So for every move, Tai Chi athletes care for detail and try to finish it perfectly, they practice a hundred times to increase our chance of success. The philosophy of Tai Chi is hanging-up, sinking-down and relaxing in the middle, the strength of the head is important. Liang Biying practices this by putting a bowl on the head, and practices leg positions on a balance beam, so that she can better experience the grip of the feet and know where the balance is. It will be very helpful for future competitions. "After practicing Tai Chi, when I get along with others, I'm not overactive anymore." Liang said. Through practicing, the girl who used to be carefree and straightforward has become more accepting and more patient. Liang Biying applied for retirement in October 2019. Sometimes she visits her elementary school as a Tai Chi coach, she wants to pass on what she has learned to the younger generation.