Nobody in the football world dares make light of Sweden's national women's team. They are Europe's highest-ranked side and the pre-tournament tip of many to win this year's Women's Euros. They were brilliant in last summer's Tokyo Olympics, storming into the final with sensational attacking prowess. They sailed through to the semifinals of the 2019 World Cup, losing only in extra time before beating England to third place. No wonder a lot of eyebrows were raised when the formidable Sweden slumped to a shock 4-0 defeat at the hands of England, who banished their traumatic run of three straight semifinal defeats at major tournaments and reached their first Women's Euro final in 13 years in front of a record crowd of 28,624 at Bramall Lane in northern England on Tuesday night. As both teams threw everything into the showdown with so much at stake, England made a mockery of the idea that they were underdogs. To their credit, Sweden produced a masterclass in the first half and England had to dig deep and defend for their lives. But Sarina Wiegman's side not only managed to keep the opponent at bay, but also put their ruthlessness in front of goal on full display.  Golden Boot leader Beth Mead, Lucy Bronze, Fran Kirby and Alessia Russo all took the chance to make a dent in Sweden's defensive line and got on the scoresheet. According to stats provider Opta, four goals is a record margin of victory in a Women's Euro semifinal. It is also the first time Sweden have ever lost by more than two goals at the tournament.  "The start of the first half wasn't very good; they had a big chance within the first minute," observed Wiegman, who now has 10 wins from 10 Women's Euro games as head coach of first Netherlands and now England. "During the first half, we got more in the game and we did better. We scored the goal and then we got more control of the game. In the second half, we totally took over. You need to have the small celebrations. It's also a little relief now, so there's a little party going on in the dressing room and that's really nice." The sentiment was echoed by Mead, who equaled the record of six goals in a single final tournament, set by Germany's Inka Grings in 2009.  "There's a lot of emotions running through the team, but I'm incredibly proud of the team tonight. A proud night for us as a nation as well," beamed the Arsenal striker.  "Sweden started the game really well. They opened us up a little bit at times and it was a good time to get the goal. It gave us that extra energy to finish the first half well. The second half, we produced such a dominant display." Sweden head coach Peter Gerhardsson, by contrast, was shocked at the result. "I can't give analysis but I can give emotions. It's tough, naturally," he told reporters.  "In the first 25 minutes, I thought we had chances, even though England did too. We had the more dangerous chances to score first. It would have given the game a different outlook. Going 2-0 down early in the second half against a difficult opponent like England is going to be tough. Then going to 3-0 and 4-0 doesn't make it any easier." Next up for England is either Germany or France at Wembley on July 31, with the nation only one victory away from winning their first major football title in 56 years.  Wiegman warned her players not to get carried away. "We'll have a good night's sleep, recover tomorrow and prepare for the final. Anything is possible."