Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China Central Committee and chairman of the Central Military Commission, on Friday delivered a speech at the meeting celebrating the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland and the inaugural ceremony of the sixth-term government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR). People from the HKSAR and the Macao Special Administrative Region reacted positively to President Xi's words, saying that the speech made people from all walks of life in the Hong Kong SAR and the Macao SAR feel warm and heartened, giving them confidence in the future. Here are some responses. Noting that the speech has opened a new milestone for Hong Kong, Tu Haiming, an executive council member of the Center for China and Globalization (CCG) Hong Kong Council, said that the "One Country, Two Systems" principle is the greatest advantage of Hong Kong. Only if Hong Kong closely clings to the country, and fits into the development of the country, will it be able to play a greater role in the future. Xi's speech is a message of trust and expectation for Hong Kong, and reflects the central government's concern, dedication and confidence in Hong Kong's development in the future, Lin Xiaohui, president of the Hong Kong Taxi Drivers Association and member of the Election Committee, said, adding that Hong Kong has a promising future as an international financial, trade and shipping center. "The stronger the 'One Country' principle, the more obvious the advantages of 'Two Systems,' Lau Kam Ling, president of Women's General Association of Macao, said. "In his speech, President Xi said that the full and accurate implementation of the principle of 'One Country, Two Systems' will create infinite space for the development of Hong Kong and Macao," she added. "President Xi's speech [has] the same guiding significance for the work of the Macao SAR. We will further advance the cause of "One Country, Two Systems" with Macao characteristics, maintain prosperity and stability in the Macao SAR and make due contributions to the prosperity, strength, unity and security of the country," Xu Chang, professor at the "One Country, Two Systems" research center of Macao Polytechnic University, said.