As economic recovery in the post-pandemic era is still sluggish globally, experts discussed global development, regional cooperation, and public health at the 7th Global Think Tank Summit held in Beijing on Tuesday. Nearly 50 international dignitaries, diplomats and experts, including former Japanese Prime Minister Yasuo Fukuda, former French Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin, and former Australian PM Kevin Rudd, attended the summit virtually. "China is committed to working with other countries to promote development and bring it back to the center of the international agenda, further increase investment in emerging fields, and play our due role in coordinating macro policies among economies," Huang Kunming, a member of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee and head of the Publicity Department of the CPC Central Committee, said at the summit via video. Experts said globalization is irreversible, yet the world needs a more effective framework to overcome the current barriers facing global governance, where multilateralism is still the key to a more inclusive, representative and participatory development. Kevin Rudd, president of Asia Society and the former prime minister of Australia, said in a keynote speech via video, "In the face of such a crisis, there is no hiding, everyone is under threat. the painful lesson of 14 years ago is in the face of a global financial crisis, any conservative measure is not helpful, only unity can solve the crisis." "Through deep and open-minded discussions by these international think tanks, we could reach a major consensus in important issues, such as climate change and UN Sustainable Development Goals," Zhang Xiaoqiang, executive vice chairman of the China Center for International Economic Exchanges (CCIEE), told CGTN. Experts said although the impact of the COVID-19 pandemic is still felt globally, geopolitical uncertainties might pose more risks to financial stability, as well as energy and food security worldwide. And creating a balance for the financial crisis and discovering new technology-based trade opportunities remain crucial. The 7th Global Think Tank Summit was hosted by the CCIEE, drawing roughly 100 attendees to discuss online and offline.