Editor's note: Zhu Zheng is an assistant professor focusing on constitutional law and politics at China University of Political Science and Law. The article reflects the author's opinion, and not necessarily the views of CGTN. July 1st, 2022, marks the 25th Anniversary Hong Kong's return to the motherland and of the establishment of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR). A big ceremony was held at the Hong Kong Convention and Exhibition Centre, where John Lee was sworn in as the sixth-term chief executive of the HKSAR. In his manifesto, John Lee, who was elected on May 8 as the Chief Executive-elect, vowed to "open a new chapter" for the HKSAR by leading with "result-oriented governance." The 44-page manifesto revealed contains four broad tenets: improving governance capabilities to tackle livelihood issues; boosting land and housing supply; enhancing Hong Kong's competiveness on the global stage; building a caring society and creating opportunities for youth development. The manifesto echoes Chinese President Xi Jinping's remarks, at a meeting celebrating the 25th anniversary of Hong Kong's return to the motherland and the inaugural ceremony of the sixth-term government of the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region (HKSAR), that "to promote the development of the HKSAR, it is of urgency to improve Hong Kong's governance system, governance capacity, and governance efficacy." But will the new chief executive deliver on his promises? Well, there's no denying that the overall social environment has changed for the better, especially after the National Security Law came into effect, Hong Kong has restored its constitutional order, which has led to more a benign environment for investments and implementation of policies. Additionally, compared with months ago when COVID-19 was ravaging the city, Hong Kong has overcome the difficult times. After taking decisive border control and strict quarantine measures, the HKSAR government has controlled the epidemic. More importantly, in the face of the epidemic, people from all walks of life have been pulled together; the solidarity, cohesion and cooperation has been fully demonstrated. And last but not least, the central government firmly supports the HKSAR government assuming primary responsibility and taking the lead in accomplishing the goals. Beijing encourages the new government to take effective measures after putting past experience into perspective, and by collecting suggestions from diverse sectors. Moreover, it has been making strenuous efforts to build the Guangdong-Hong Kong-Macao Greater Bay Area with an aim to create more opportunities for the youths from Hong Kong. Lee and his team can always count on Beijing in times of adversity. That being said, the tasks ahead are by no means easy to accomplish. In order to enhance the quality of governance and people's well-being, the new government should bear in mind the main responsibility and take immediate and concrete measures to meet the growing expectations from the local residents and the central government. For one thing, the journey to long term prosperity depends on how well Lee's team respond to the outside world. Lee should ensure investors freedom in Hong Kong, and justice guaranteed by the common law system. For another, the new administration should come up with fresh thinking when it comes to interacting with Beijing; there is no time to lose. There is new hope emerging on the horizon, but the challenges can never be underestimated. The new HKSAR government needs to stay committed to "One Country" while coming up with new ways to leverage the benefits of the "Two Systems." With an accurate implementation of the principle and Beijing's firm support, the new leader will make good on his promises. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)