The New Orleans Pelicans put a clause in the five-year, $193 million designated rookie contract extension with Zion Williamson, requiring him to keep his weight below 295 pounds (about 133.8 kilograms), or his loses his guaranteed money, according to NOLA.com. The team has every reason to do so after Williamson missed the whole 2021-22 season due to injuries which were caused by being overweight and his over-reliance on athleticism. As an undersized big man (1.98 meters tall), Williamson weighed 129 kilograms, one of the biggest in the NBA, when he entered the league in 2019. During his recovery this year, Williamson reportedly surpassed 330 pounds (over 149 kilograms), heavier than 2.29-meter-tall Tacko Fall and 2.21-meter-tall Boban Marjanovic. Even when Williamson was healthy, many worried about his knees every time he leaped up and charged the rim. Williamson's talents are astonishing thanks to his combination of power and athleticism, but health has already become more than a hidden risk for him as he only played 85 games for the Pelicans in three seasons. The last NBA star to deal with similar weight problems was Charles Barkley. When he was drafted by the Philadelphia 76ers with the fifth pick in 1984, he weighted over 300 pounds (about 136 kilograms). He was still performing well but when he finally dropped enough weight, he was named the Most Valuable Player in 1993 after beating Michael Jordan at his prime in the race. Other superstar players have reduced their weight in the later stages of their careers to stay healthy – Tim Duncan, Kobe Bryant and LeBron James – and they won more honors in return. These are all examples Williamson can learn from if he wants to exploits his gifts for longer. Teams have asked players to control their weight with contract terms before. For example, the Boston Celtics did the same with Glen Davis. So did the Los Angeles Lakers with Derrick Caracter. The Miami Heat even fine players for putting their hands on their knees during games, according to The Athletic. The Pelicans have a very promising squad that includes Brandon Ingram and C.J. McCollum for the 2022-23 season. If Williamson joins them in a better shape, they will have a good chance of doing better than reaching the playoffs.