China surveyed 83,400 square kilometers of black soil substrate in the country's northeast in the first six months of 2022. China launched the survey to comprehensively and systematically understand black soils' distribution, structure, quality and utilization. So far, 83,400 square kilometers of black soil have been surveyed, with 33,021 samples collected. "From the surface soils to underground soils and from the macro level to micro level, what we've done include general observation, sampling, assessment, analysis and testing. Building on this, we've done a comprehensive survey and study of the surface layer and geological layer of black soils in a spatial structure from points, lines to planes," said Hou Hongxing, the principal investigator of the survey project. According to the Ministry of Natural Resources, the survey is based on the results of the third national land survey and uses technologies that include remote sensing to investigate the quantity, quality and ecology of black soils. It aims to determine the spatial structure of black soil substrate from the horizontal and vertical dimensions. Jiang Kaiqin, an official of the Ministry of Natural Resources, said the survey is of great significance. "It aims to serve the ecological restoration. The main factors and internal mechanism of ecological degradation of black soils can be found through substrate survey, so as to better comply with the law of nature and organize ecological restoration scientifically, which is of great significance to maintaining the natural ecological environment conducive to long-term sustainable utilization of black soils," he said. The ministry plans to investigate the types, distribution and spatial structure of black soil substrate in 83 key counties in northeast China's typical black soil region in about two years. Besides, a law on black soil conservation will come into effect on August 1. It is the first legislation in China dedicated to protecting black soils, which are valuable agricultural strategic resources of the country. (Cover image via VCG.) (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at nature@cgtn.com.)