In the coming week, the Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) marks its 95th birthday and the 55th ASEAN (the Association of Southeast Asian Nations) Foreign Ministers' Meeting will take place from July 29 to August 5 in Cambodia. Meanwhile, Türkiye's President Recep Tayyip Erdogan will meet with Russian President Vladimir Putin on Friday. PLA's 95th founding anniversary The PLA marks its 95th founding anniversary on August 1. Chinese President Xi Jinping on July 27 presented the August 1 Medal to three military servicemen: Du Fuguo, a young demining soldier, Qian Qihu, an academician at the Chinese Academy of Engineering, and commander of the epic Shenzhou-12 manned spaceflight mission Nie Haisheng. Xi also conferred an honorary flag to a battalion for their outstanding service ahead of the 95th anniversary of the founding of the PLA on August 1. The August 1 Medal is granted to military personnel who have made outstanding contributions to safeguarding national sovereignty, security and development interests, and to advancing the modernization of national defense and the armed forces. Cambodia to host ASEAN Foreign Ministers' Meeting Cambodia will host the 55th ASEAN Foreign Ministers' Meeting and related meetings from July 29 to August 5 in Phnom Penh, according to a statement issued on Thursday by the country's Foreign Ministry. During the meeting, the foreign ministers and the secretary-general of ASEAN will witness the signing of the instruments of accession to the Treaty of Amity and Cooperation in Southeast Asia by Denmark, Greece, the Netherlands, Oman, Qatar and the United Arab Emirates, it added. Cambodia is the chair of ASEAN for 2022. ASEAN is made up of Brunei, Cambodia, Indonesia, Laos, Malaysia, Myanmar, the Philippines, Singapore, Thailand and Vietnam. Putin to meet Erdogan Russian President Vladimir Putin will hold a meeting with his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan in the Black Sea resort of Sochi on August 5, Interfax news agency quoted Kremlin spokesman Dmitry Peskov as saying. The two leaders will discuss regional problems and bilateral relations, the report said. Erdogan was instrumental in helping to secure agreements signed by Russia and Ukraine in Istanbul last week to allow a resumption of Ukrainian grain exports via the Black Sea. Day by day Monday: The 95th founding anniversary of the PLA; Maldivian President Ibrahim Mohamed Solih makes an official visit to India; Poland marks the 78th anniversary of its war-time Warsaw Uprising against Nazi occupation; U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Japanese Prime Minister Fumio Kishida are among the attendees at the UN Nuclear Non-Proliferation conference. Tuesday: Cambodian Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Foreign Affairs Prak Sokhonn holds a welcome dinner for ASEAN foreign ministers. Wednesday: OPEC+ ministers meet to assess oil output boost; Opening ceremony of the ASEAN Foreign Ministers' meeting; Ukraine's President Volodymyr Zelenskyy addresses Australian National University via video link. Thursday: NATO Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg delivers a speech at the Norwegian Labour Party youth wing's summer camp on the island of Utoeya, focusing on the importance of NATO and on the Ukraine crisis; the ASEAN Foreign Ministers' meeting continues. Friday: The ASEAN Foreign Ministers' meeting continues; Russian President Vladimir Putin meets his Turkish counterpart Recep Tayyip Erdogan. Saturday: ASEAN press conference is held by host Cambodian Foreign Minister Prak Sokhonn. Sunday: A quiet day in politics. (With input from agencies)