As Shanghai recovers from its worst COVID-19 outbreak over the past months, the auto hub city's car exports have been on a steady upswing, with local automakers even setting sight on new global markets. The first batch of some 200 new-energy cars manufactured by Shanghai-based automaker SAIC Motor, left the Shanghai Haitong International Automotive Terminal on July 21, heading to Europe. The models are called MULAN and are developed and produced by SAIC's sub-brand MG. In the first half of this year, MG has sold more than 45,000 cars in Europe, becoming one of the top 10 best-sellers in Sweden and Norway. The latest shipment of new products is expected to make its debut in countries such as Germany, France, Britain and Italy in the fourth quarter. In spite of Shanghai's recent COVID-19 outbreak, the car export of local brands including SAIC and HAVAL has enjoyed a steady growth, Xi Jialin, executive director of sales & marketing at Shanghai Haitong International Automotive Terminal, told CGTN. "Our cargo handling capacity jumped by 20 percent year on year in the first half of the year. Exports jumped even more quickly by over 50 percent. Vehicles made by domestic carmakers made up between 60 percent and 70 percent of the total," said Xi. China exported a total of over 1.2 million vehicles in the first half of 2022, a year-on-year jump of 47.1 percent, according to data from the China Association of Automobile Manufacturers. But Ron Zheng, a senior partner at Roland Berger, said such outstanding performance was not beyond his expectations. "If you look at the Chinese auto market itself, we are entering a mild growth stage. The overseas market has become one of the most important strategic moves by various Chinese OEMs (Original Equipment Manufacturers)," Zheng said, predicting that China's car export will maintain a quick increase of between 40 percent and 50 percent for some years to come. Chinese carmakers used to focus mainly on "budget markets" such as Southeast Asia, but now they are focusing more international destinations. In addition to SAIC, other Shanghai-based brands such as BYD and Nio have also announced plans to sell cars in European markets. For example, SAIC's MG MULAN models are expected to enter areas including Australia, New Zealand, the Middle East and Mexico, the next year. The company's global target sale is projected to reach 150,000 in 2023.