Chuojiao Fanzi Quan is a typical wushu which represents "Northern Kick" in the ancient China "Southern Fist and Northern Kick" technique. It is said to date back to the Song Dynasty (960-1279). And it emphasizes self-defence rather than attacking. Your hands are like a front door while the kicks are important. Step by step, you stamp on firmly. Zhang Aixia was born in Dezhou City, Shandong Province in 1986. She often got sick when she was young. So her father asked her to practice with him to strengthen her body. Thanks to her wushu skills, Zhang entered Tianjin University of Sport. After graduation, she came to Beijing to be a PE teacher in a primary school. Eventhough her father taught her some moves, like tricks of Fanzi Quan, Zhang still felt isolated from traditional martial arts. In 2008, Zhang had the privilege of meeting Zhong Haiming, a direct disciple of Master Wu Binlou. "During the first visit, I showed him what I knew. When I finished, he showed me the moves of Chuojiao Fanzi Quan. The kicks are special. It's full of power and sharpness, exactly how I imagined wushu should be." After visiting Zhong, Zhang returned, able to recall his whole performance. She practiced the kicks at home before going to ask the master if she had improved. Chuojiao Fanzi Quan is very subtle. The moves stretch out but they aren't wide open. One of the moves is the "Mandarin duck kick." Lift your leg and swing quickly. Then stamp your feet on the ground, leaving no time for the opponent to react. It is called "Dragon swings its tail." Before, wushu was mainly used in battles, daily training and military maneuvers. Self-defense was all about punches and kicks. For Chuojiao Fanzi Quan, it has diverse kicks to cover the trainer and to attack. Meanwhile, using the lower leg to kick others. It's all about steps. Lift your leg faster with full power. With the change of times, Chuojiao Fanzi Quan tends to focus on the tactics rather than sheer force. You can always use the tricks. When you can control the moves without hurting anybody, then you truly have it. You would have conquered no one but yourself.