A calligraphy and painting exhibition, running on the theme of Chinese painter Liu Wanming's love of life and nature, is now on display in Chinese capital Beijing, showcasing more than 100 artworks by the artist. Including both large-scale paintings and smaller sketches, these pieces that make up the exhibition mainly portray flowers, birds and land animals. They embody the artist's meticulous observation and portrayal of the natural world. The flower-and-bird genre is one of three major categories in Chinese ink painting. Such works are often well received by the public due to the vivid scenes they portray filled with various animals and flowers in diverse palettes. Many of these paintings at the exhibition are also being welcomed by industry experts. One of the most popular works, "Light rain washes the forest, and birds chirp in an idle breeze," perfectly captures the barren landscapes as turtledoves perch on wintry locust trees in northern China. Liu has studied the traditional art of Chinese painting in depth over the past decades and formed a solid skill base and unique style. Through portraying figures, landscapes, flowers and birds, he renders the harmony between man and nature in artistic terms. His works have an elegant and fresh style, highlighting the importance of preserving traditions while also experimenting with innovative flourishes to enrich the nation's cultural output. Many of Liu's paintings draw inspiration from everyday life and scenes from nature, yet they artfully convey a sense of poetic serenity. Most of the works in the exhibition were created during or after Liu's visits to common folk living in urban and rural areas, as he soaked up local cultures and bonded with the people he encountered there. The artist believes one's life experiences are the best source of inspiration for any creative output worth its salt. Liu says life experience is the source and foundation of an artist's creative output. He sees the two as being inseparable. "Only when you take part in the grassroots and connect with the local people, can the works you create have feelings and touch the audience. When people see your works, they will empathize with them. They provide a kind of emotional sustenance and aesthetic enjoyment," Liu said. The exhibition is running at the Painting and Calligraphy Channel Art Museum in Beijing until July 15.