Three-time defending champion Novak Djokovic reached the Wimbledon fourth round for the 14th time on Friday with a straight-sets demolition of Serbian compatriot Miomir Kecmanovic. Djokovic, looking to pull level with American Pete Sampras as a seven-time Wimbledon champion, triumphed 6-0, 6-3, 6-4. Friday's win was the 330th of Djokovic's Grand Slam career. "It means that I've been playing for quite a few years, which I'm very grateful for and I'm very blessed to be in the position to compete at the highest level and secure more wins in Grand Slams," said the 35-year-old top seed. "I'm proud of the consistency at this level." American John Isner set a new record for the number of career aces in his third-round match at Wimbledon on Friday but it was not enough to overcome Italy's Jannik Sinner. Isner walloped 24 aces but was broken twice in the match and went down 6-4, 7-6 (7/4), 6-3. The Italian, who did not face a break point in his two-hour, 20-minute triumph, will play 19-year-old Carlos Alcaraz in the last 16. Spaniard Alcaraz was equally impressive in his 6-3, 6-1, 6-2 win over Oscar Otte of Germany. "This was the best match on grass I have ever played. I have enjoyed each match I have played here and am really happy to get into the fourth round," a beaming Alcaraz told the crowd after becoming the youngest man in over a decade to reach the last 16. "Wimbledon gives you special energy so I am trying to get better every day and every match I play on grass," he added. Caroline Garcia of France eased into the fourth round at Wimbledon for the first time since 2017 after defeating No. 33 seed Zhang Shuai 7-6(3), 7-6(5) of China on Friday. "I was waiting for the battle against Shuai," Garcia said on court. "She won a couple of times in the past against me. She's a great player and, most importantly, she's one of the nicest persons on tour. She was so happy for me at the end of the match. "I just really stayed focused, played one point at a time. Every game was tight. It could change very quickly. I was very happy with how I played the two tiebreak sets, very aggressive." "To be honest, we had a great match at Wimbledon today," said Zhang. "I gave all in the match, but today's opponent is the better one and she deserves the last victory. There is no regret in holding your head high, and I hope you enjoy it," she added. Greek fifth seed Maria Sakkari was knocked out of Wimbledon on Friday, losing in straight sets to German world No. 103 Tatjana Maria. The 34-year-old Maria, who only returned to the tour from maternity leave less than a year ago, won 6-3, 7-5 to reach the last 16 of a Slam for the first time. She will face former French Open champion Jelena Ostapenko of Latvia for a place in the quarterfinals. (With input from agencies)