Editor's note: Qian Feng is the director of Research Department at the National Strategic Institute, Tsinghua University. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily those of CGTN. In July, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi has visited the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) countries and participated in important diplomatic activities, including attending the G20 Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Indonesia, hosting important bilateral and multilateral meetings with Indonesia, Vietnam, Cambodia and Myanmar, and paying visits to Thailand, the Philippines, Indonesia and Malaysia. These visits in different countries – with intensive communications showing flexible forms and rich contents – have attracted attention from the international community. This year marks the first year of the China-ASEAN comprehensive strategic partnership. "Making a good start and making a good step" has become the underlying spirit of bilateral diplomatic exchanges. It is undoubtedly significant for China and ASEAN to promote the comprehensive strategic partnership at a critical moment of turbulence and dramatic change. Some Western media hyped the so-called timing of the visits, believing that the Chinese foreign minister traveled to Southeast Asia after the G7 and NATO summit, especially after the U.S.-ASEAN special summit in May, showing China's intention to strengthen its relations with Southeast Asian countries in response to the U.S. diplomatic and economic offensive. In fact, between China and the ASEAN countries, close exchanges and high-level visits have long been the norm, and there is no narrow consideration to deal with temporary changes. Looking back, we can see that over the past three decades, cooperative relations between China and ASEAN have been tested and deepened, and great progress has been made in politics and security, economy, trade, and social and cultural areas. Today, the two sides have joined hands to safeguard regional peace and stability, promote regional economic integration and enhance bilateral people-to-people exchanges. They have become the largest trading partners, dynamic cooperative partners and profound strategic partners. Driven by free trade mechanisms such as the upgraded China-ASEAN Free Trade Agreement and the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership, the trade volume between China and ASEAN has grown rapidly. Statistics from the General Administration of Customs of China show that in the first five months of this year, the total trade volume between China and ASEAN reached $371.215 billion, up 10.2 percent year-on-year, and China and ASEAN continue to be each other's largest trading partners. According to the data released by ASEAN, China's direct investment in ASEAN has increased to $13.597 billion in 2021, and China has also become the second largest source of investment in ASEAN. This has not only set an example of mutual respect and mutually beneficial cooperation for the international community, but also become the most successful and dynamic model of cooperation in the Asia-Pacific region. Especially in recent years, in the face of COVID-19 outbreak, the global economic turmoil and "industry 4.0," the two sides have strengthened their cooperation, promoted economic integration and globalization, made contribution to the global governance with "Asia pattern," "Asian wisdom," and committed to cultivate and create new growth flash points of cooperation for embracing new science and technology revolution. For example, ASEAN countries have a total population of more than 660 million, and China has provided more than 600 million vaccine doses to ASEAN countries by the end of 2021. Under the "health shield" cooperation initiative, China will also provide 150 million doses of COVID-19 vaccine as free assistance to ASEAN countries in the near future. However, it is alarming that the dialogue and cooperation between China and ASEAN are facing the impact of the cold war mentality and the trend of anti-globalization. The U.S. and Western countries are guiding NATO towards the Asia-Pacific region with the cold war mindset, promoting group politics in regional political, economic and security affairs, and preaching economic decoupling. At the same time, like other countries in the world, the energy and food crises caused by the ongoing COVID-19 pandemic, weak economic recovery, climate change and geopolitical turmoil have also become common challenges for China and ASEAN. Against this backdrop, it is even more important to continue to consolidate the China-ASEAN comprehensive strategic partnership and inject confidence and impetus into the peace, development, prosperity and stability for the 2 billion people and the world at large. China and ASEAN share highly similar interests and demands, whether in the digital economy, new energy, green economy and marine economy, or in addressing the global governance crisis and promoting economic recovery. Both sides hope that the deepening partnership will set an ever-lasting example of mutual respect and mutual benefit for the international community. Following the Global Development Initiative proposed last year, Beijing launched another project for international public good this year – the Global Security Initiative. Therefore, Foreign Minister Wang Yi's visit to Southeast Asia aims to better converge the two initiatives with bilateral partnerships, jointly promote economic recovery, achieve the goals of the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, and make greater contribution to peace and development in the region and the world. By strengthening practical cooperation and communication with China, ASEAN can achieve a high-quality docking between the "Indo-Pacific Outlook" and the Belt and Road Initiative, constantly promote the quality and upgrading of bilateral relations, and enhance its influence in global affairs. Over the years, the reason why the Asia-Pacific region has become a paradise of relative prosperity and stability in the chaos of today's world is that the code to success is win-win cooperation, rather than zero-sum confrontation. China and ASEAN are the guardians of stability in the Asia-Pacific region. Calling for peace, stability and prosperity is the common aspiration of both sides. The Asia-Pacific is not a "chessboard" for major power games, and ASEAN countries are also not "chess pieces," but important "chess players" to promote development and prosperity in the region. The cooperation between China and ASEAN is a bright road of win-win benefit. The relationship between the two sides shall stand the test of external provocation and interference. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)