Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Thursday announced that his country will grant zero tariff treatment to 98 percent of the tariff lines from Afghanistan, while also hoping to see more high quality products and specialities imported from the South Asian country. China is ready to push for dovetailing the Belt and Road Initiative with Afghanistan's national development strategies, support the extension of the China-Pakistan Economic Corridor to Afghanistan and share China's development opportunities, Wang said. Wang made the remarks while speaking to the acting Foreign Minister of the Afghan interim government Amir Khan Muttaqi on the sidelines of the meeting of the Council of Foreign Ministers of the Shanghai Cooperation Organization (SCO), which is being held in Uzbekistan starting Thursday. China will continue to urge the United States and its Western allies to lift unreasonable sanctions against Afghanistan and earnestly fulfill their primary responsibility for Afghanistan's economic reconstruction, Wang said. The Chinese diplomat also spoke highly of the "firm attitude" that the Afghan government has shown on drug control, and said the world's second largest economy is willing to help the country with alternative planting. According to reports, there are around three million drug addicts in Afghanistan. The Taliban-led caretaker government has vowed to fight against poppy cultivation and the opium trade in the war-torn country. For his part, Muttaqi thanked China for its timely emergency assistance to Afghanistan, which was deeply moved by the urgently needed aid and friendship. A strong earthquake hit southeastern Afghanistan in June, leaving more than 1,000 people killed and nearly 2,000 others injured. On behalf of the government, Muttaqi vowed to continue their efforts in cracking down on drug trafficking, and hoped to learn the modern agricultural technology from China to benefit its people. He added that he hopes that China will give Afghanistan more support in its pursuit of international recognition and its efforts in improving infrastructure construction, among other aspects.