China's top legislator Li Zhanshu stressed the restoration of the ecological environment of the Yangtze River and the all-around and effective enforcement of the Yangtze River Protection Law. Li, chairman of the Standing Committee of the National People's Congress (NPC) and a member of the Standing Committee of the Political Bureau of the Communist Party of China Central Committee, has been carrying out the inspection of the law enforcement in central China's Hubei Province from last Thursday to Monday. As the country's first legislation on a specific river basin, the Yangtze River Protection Law was adopted by the NPC Standing Committee in December, 2021 and put into effect on March 1 this year. The law features new requirements for the Yangtze River biological protection, sewage treatment, flood control and disaster relief, and ecological restoration. It establishes a national coordination mechanism for protection efforts, bans chemical plants from being built within one kilometer of the river, and also restricts sand mining along the riverbanks. Li, heading a team from the Standing Committee of the NPC, has conducted field inspections in several cities in Hubei in the Yangtze River basin, and held symposiums with local authorities to learn about the implementation of the law and listen to local opinions and suggestions. He affirmed the significant progress Hubei has made in protecting the Yangtze River in accordance with the law, with clearer water, greener riverbank, gradually recovered biodiversity and people's enhanced sense of happiness seen along the inspection tour. Chinese President Xi Jinping attaches great importance to the protection of the Yangtze River, and has made important instructions on many occasions, emphasizing the need to protect the Yangtze River in accordance with the law, Li noted. Stretching over 6,300 km, the Yangtze River is the longest river in China and the third-longest in the world, boasting rich biodiversity and water resources in its basin. However, accompanied with the rapid economic development along the river, there have been many problems, such as overfishing, water pollution and soil erosion, threatening the ecology and people's life along the river. Li called on local authorities to thoroughly implement Xi's thoughts on ecological conservation and focus on restoring and protecting the entire Yangtze River ecosystem.