Cristiano Ronaldo's prospects of moving to an European powerhouse that can offer both an eye-watering salary and Champions League football are fading away at full tilt as Chelsea have become the latest club to end their interest in signing the Manchester United talisman. Chelsea were offered the opportunity to poach the 37-year-old from a direct rival by super agent Jorge Mendes after his most famous client, who has only one year left to run on his contract at United, expressed his desire to leave Old Trafford this summer. While United and their new manager Erik ten Hag insisted that there is no intention to sell Ronaldo amid frustration over the Portuguese superstar's refusal to travel on their pre-season tour in Asia, Mendes held talks with Chelsea's new American chairman Todd Boehly in Portugal over a potential transfer. However, multiple media outlets have confirmed that Chelsea have decided not to make a bid for Ronaldo after discussions between Boehly and their manager Thomas Tuchel. It is understood that though Tuchel holds Ronaldo in high regard, he would prefer to pursue other options to strengthen their attack.  The arrival of Ronaldo would have given Chelsea an enormous commercial boost, which is why Boehly were thought to be intrigued by the concept of scooping such a legendary figure, but there is no doubt that the veteran would struggle to fit into Chelsea's tactical system and style, which set great store by consistent running and pressing. "I would not rule out [signing another striker] but right now it is not the priority," Tuchel told reporters on Thursday. "The priority right now is defense, it's not a secret. From there we need to see what's possible." Ronaldo returned to United from Juventus last summer and scored 24 goals in all competitions. But he was unable to help them qualify for the Champions League as United finished with their lowest ever Premier League points tally in the 2021/2022 campaign, having accumulated just 58 from 38 league matches. As a consequence of this diabolical failure, Ronaldo is in line for a 25 percent salary cut and the ignominious experience of playing in the Europa League, the second tier of elite European football next season, which is thought to be part of the reasoning behind his strong desire to leave. Earlier this month, French giants Paris Saint-Germain and German champions Bayern Munich also rejected the chance to move for Ronaldo, so options are now very thin for the five-time Ballon d'Or winner. According to ESPN, an unnamed Saudi Arabian club is credited with an attempt to give Ronaldo the chance to become the world's highest-paid player by offering him 275 million euros ($275 million) in wages for the next two seasons. It remains highly unlikely that Ronaldo, who is still aiming for major trophies in a competitive league, will accept the mega-money offer from such a far-flung corner of the football world.  For all the behind-the-scenes chaos, turbulence and horse-trading in recent weeks, Ronaldo might end up staying at United in the twilight years of his trophy-laden career. "He's not with us and it's due to personal issues," Ten Hag said at a press conference earlier this week when asked about Ronaldo's absence. "We are planning with Cristiano for this season so that's it. I'm looking forward to working with him." On Thursday, Ronaldo posted a picture of him working out in a gym on social media. He was wearing none other than the United's training shorts. Perhaps, the soap opera around the future of Ronaldo is nearly coming to an end.