China's expertise in biological feed technologies is proving to be a boon for the animal husbandry sector in Egypt. Cooperation between the two countries has been strengthened further under the China-proposed Belt and Road Initiative. One such project between the two sides was inaugurated recently by Egyptian president Abdel Fattah El Sisi. The livestock and dairy output project includes 20,000 livestock, four automated slaughterhouses and several research centers. It is expected to give a fillip to the multiple projects undertaken by Egypt to achieve self-sufficiency in meat and dairy products. "The population of Egypt has increased by 15 million people in the last eight years. If the livestock production had increased by the same rate, we could have kept prices unchanged, but there are other variables like animal feed. We don't produce enough animal feed locally. We import a huge amount from abroad. We tell ourselves that we must cultivate more land to keep costs down," Sisi said. Egypt imports about 80 percent of its animal feed raw material from various countries including China. But China has also been helping Egypt in research and development work aimed at increasing Egypt's animal feed production with the help of biotechnology. "The bio feed harvest uses waste from the animal farm, which is better than dumping or burning waste and polluting the environment," said Sherif Fayyad, professor of agricultural economy & head of the desert research center of the Egyptian agriculture ministry. "Biological feed is environment friendly and enables production of high quality feed from waste. Besides, it also creates new job opportunities, increases overall output, and furthers use of green feed products," he said. Egypt depends on clover for animal feed but had to limit its cultivation for increasing wheat production. As a result, it has become even more reliant on Chinese feed strains for its requirements. Chinese investments in this sector have amounted to nearly $100 million, spread over five companies in Egypt that employ about 800 people. Fayyad who is a pioneer in this sector believes Chinese projects fill a huge gap in the north African country's animal husbandry sector. "Egypt can learn from China's experience in this field. Egypt also offers good investment opportunities for Chinese companies. This could be a fruitful cooperation for both countries. It coincides with China's strategy to invest in infrastructure and real economy. China's Belt and Road Initiative will benefit Egypt immensely," said Fayyad. Egypt is a strategic location on the Belt and Road Initiative that links Chinese companies to the western part of the world through the Suez Canal. There are also several Chinese factories, infrastructure projects, and a Chinese industrial city in the African country that manufactures various products for export to the nearby European, African and Arab markets.