Peng Liyuan, the wife of Chinese President Xi Jinping, met with Iriana Joko Widodo, the wife of Indonesian President Joko Widodo, at the Diaoyutai State Guesthouse in Beijing on Tuesday. China and Indonesia have been important neighbors to each other, and the friendship between our peoples goes back to ancient times, said Peng, adding that relations between the two countries have become increasingly close in recent years and the people-to-people exchanges have been very frequent. Acknowledging Indonesia as the second most popular tourist destination for Chinese tourists, Peng said she expects the two countries to continue to deepen bilateral exchanges. Expressing thanks for the warm welcome by President Xi and his wife, Iriana Joko Widodo, said she is glad to see old friends again in Beijing and welcomes more Chinese tourists to visit Indonesia. She also expressed her wish for a lasting friendship between China and Indonesia. Peng and Iriana Joko Widodo also enjoyed folk music performances brought by professors and students of the China Conservatory of Music, the Chinese folk song "Singing the Night Among Fishing Boats" performed by the traditional Chinese string musical instrument guzheng and the Indonesian folk song "Boat Song" performed using the ruan, a four-stringed Chinese musical instrument. Peng told Iriana Joko Widodo about the long history of China's traditional musical instruments and the artistic characteristics of the playing techniques. Amazed at the beauty of Chinese instrumental music, Iriana Joko Widodo said she was deeply moved when the young Chinese artists performed the Indonesian folk song. Music has no national boundaries, and it can communicate hearts and pass on friendship, Peng said. Peng said she hopes cultural exchanges and mutual learning will play an even greater role in enhancing the friendship between the two countries. Iriana Joko Widodo is accompanying her husband, Indonesian President Joko Widodo, during his visit to China from July 25 to July 26. (Cover: A guzheng performance in Guangzhou City, south China's Guangdong Province, September 1, 2021. /CFP)