Oliver Kahn, CEO of Bundesliga's Bayern Munich, responded to Robert Lewandowski's remarks about his relationship with the club by warning him "public statements like that don't get you anywhere." It has been no secret that Lewandowski wants to leave Bayern for Barcelona. Though he still has one year left on his current contract with the German powerhouse, the extension negotiation is going nowhere. Moreover, according to Sebastian Staszewski, Lewandowski has already reached a three-year agreement with Barcelona. Barcelona have offered Bayern 35 million euros (about $37.6 million) to land Lewandowski, but Bayern wanted no less than 50 million euros (about $53.7 million) before agreeing to let the Polish superstar go. Developments like this are not uncommon in the European football transfer market, but what Lewandowski said on Monday was not pleasant to Bayern's ears. "So what we know for sure at the moment is that my era in Bayern Munich is over," he said at the press conference for the Polish national team. "I don't see any possibility to continue my career in this club, based on what we could see in the last couple of weeks." "Bayern are a serious club so I hope they won’t keep me just because they can. I don't want to go any further at the moment. I would like to focus on the national team and the matches that we are going to play, and maybe after the national team camp we will have more time to say more about the situation. But for now I would like to end like this," Lewandowski added. In response, Kahn told Sport 1: "I can't tell you why Robert chose this way of communicating his situation. Public statements like that don't get you anywhere. Robert should remember what he has at Bayern. He has become one of the best footballers in the world here." Despite the recent intensions, Bayern and Lewandowski’s partnership has been nothing but successful. The team has won eight straight Bundesliga titles, three DFC-Pokal championships and one UEFA Champions League title among other trophies since he arrived in 2014. Lewandowski is a six-time Bundesliga top goal scorer, two-time European Golden Shoe winner and named Ballon d'Or Striker of the Year in 2021. Barcelona's manager Xavi Hernandez spoke highly of Lewandowski but chose his words about any possible transfer. "For me, he is a beast of a player and I have told him that. He has the quality to mark an era here. I like him a lot, he's such a capable player who can dominate games the way we play," Xavi said on May 21. "He has already said he wants to leave, there are negotiations, but he still has a contract at his club. It won't be easy being Bayern, but it's an option," he added. While remaining tough on Lewandowski's transfer, Bayern have been looking for his replacement and have made some progress. L'Equipe revealed that Sadio Mane of Liverpool has agreed to join the German club on a three-year deal, but Liverpool reportedly want 35 million pounds (about $44.2 million) for his departure.