China has said it shares similar positions and broad common interests on the Peninsula issue with the Republic of Korea (ROK). According to a press release by the Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs on Thursday, Liu Xiaoming, special representative of the Chinese government on Korean Peninsula affairs, held face-to-face talks with Noh Kyu-duk, special representative for Korean Peninsula peace and security affairs of the ROK Foreign Ministry, on Tuesday in Seoul. Liu expounded on China's position on the Korean Peninsula issue, saying that China does not want to see escalation of tensions on the Peninsula and disapproves of actions by any party that could aggravate the situation. “China and the ROK share similar positions and broad common interests on the Peninsula issue,” he said. China supports the ROK and the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (DPRK) in improving their relations and highly commends the active efforts made by the ROK administration of President Moon Jae-in and outcomes it achieved, he said. Liu added that China is prepared to strengthen communication and coordination with the upcoming ROK administration of President-elect Yoon Suk-yeol to jointly push forward the process of political settlement of the Peninsula issue. Noh expressed the ROK's hope the Korean Peninsula to remain peaceful and stable. He called on relevant parties to resume talks as soon as possible and said that the ROK is willing to strengthen cooperation with China on the Peninsula affairs. The DPRK fired a ballistic missile on Wednesday, just days ahead of a two-week military drills between the U.S. and the ROK starting from May 9 and the inauguration of Yoon on May 10. The former Chinese ambassador to Britain arrived in Seoul on Sunday for his first visit to the ROK since he was appointed as the special representative of the Chinese government on Korean Peninsula affairs last April. Taking questions from reporters upon his arrival in the ROK capital, Liu said the key to resolving the issue is in the hands of the DPRK and the U.S. Read more: Graphics: What do we know about the DPRK's frequent missile tests? S. Korea, U.S. to begin two-week combined air drills next week: Yonhap (Cover: Liu Xiaoming (L), special representative of the Chinese government on Korean Peninsula affairs, shakes hand with Noh Kyu-duk, special representative for Korean Peninsula peace and security affairs of the ROK Foreign Ministry, in Seoul, ROK, May 3, 2022. /Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs)