It was the 61st game of the season for Liverpool. Jurgen Klopp's players are overworked, burnt out and in a state of emotional, physical and mental exhaustion, but this is the price they are willing to pay for their potential unparalleled success. After completing an impressive clean sweep of the English League Cup and the FA Cup over the weekend, the Reds have taken the Premier League title race down to the final day of the season by coming from behind to beat Southampton 2-1 on Tuesday night. With a Champions League final against Real Madrid on the horizon, a history-making quadruple is still on for Liverpool. Klopp went into the showdown at Southampton, knowing that defeat would hand the title to league leaders Manchester City with one game to spare, and without fresh legs, his team struggled to maintain the intensity of the press. When Nathan Redmond gave Southampton an early and deserved lead with a brilliant right-foot shot, Liverpool feared the worst. However, Klopp's side once again displayed their resilience and perseverance just three days after winning the FA Cup by beating Chelsea on penalties at Wembley, as Takumi Minamino, who was on loan to Southampton last season, leveled the score with an emphatic finish at the near post before the interval. The Japanese star was Liverpool's top scorer in both domestic cups with seven goals, but he has been on the fringes of the squad for a long period. It was only his first start in the Premier League this season. Nevertheless, his latest heroics spoke volumes about his professionalism and dedication. Minamino's equalizer settled Liverpool's nerves and they completely dictated the tempo of the game with effortless ease and confidence. Their dominance finally told when Joel Matip took advantage of Saints' defensive weakness and sent a marvelous header over goalkeeper Alex McCarthy. The result leaves Liverpool a point behind City heading into the final day of a thrilling campaign. They will still need City to drop points at home against Aston Villa on Sunday. But Liverpool have done their part by ensuring the fight will go down to the wire. "City are an incredible team to go up against. Whatever happens this season, we have done ourselves proud," beamed Liverpool veteran James Milner. "All we could do is take it to the last game and we've done that." Liverpool will try their utmost to beat Wolves at Anfield and hope for the best. Klopp insisted there's still a slim chance that Liverpool would be crowned champions for the second time in three seasons. "Of course it could happen. Football is a tricky game sometimes. The only chance we had tonight was to win. We did our job. We never give up," he told a press conference. "We have to first win our game. It is not like we are talking about Wolves like they are not there. To win the league is possible, not likely but possible. That is enough." Meanwhile, Klopp also revealed that Mohamed Salah and Virgil van Dijk, who was left out of his squad for Southampton due to injuries, could be fit to face Wolves. "They are both OK," he said. "So the target for both would be they could be involved again at the weekend. We keep going."