In the upcoming week, State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi will continue his visit in the Pacific Island Countries and EU leaders will hold an extraordinary meeting on Ukraine and energy. FM Wang Yi's Pacific Islands sojourn State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi will touchdown Fiji, Tonga, Vanuatu and Papua New Guinea and Timor-Leste next week and host the second China-Pacific Island Countries Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Fiji. Ties between China and Pacific Island states have witnessed a step-up in "mutual benefits” and “mutual trust." Developing friendly and cooperative relations with the Pacific Island Countries (PICs) is a long-term strategic policy of China's diplomacy, and China upholds the principles of mutual benefit, win-win cooperation, openness and inclusiveness when developing ties with PICs, Chinese Foreign Ministry has stressed. EU leaders to discuss energy, Ukraine at an extraordinary meeting European Union leaders will meet on May 30-31 in an extraordinary summit to discuss "Ukraine crisis, energy, food security, and defense," EU Council president Charles Michel wrote on Twitter. "We will address the situation in Ukraine at our first working session, and President Zelenskyy will join us via video link at the beginning of this discussion. One of our most pressing concerns is assisting the Ukrainian state, along with our international partners, with its liquidity needs. We will also discuss how best to organize our support for Ukraine's reconstruction, as a major global effort will be required to rebuild the country," he wrote in an open letter. During the meeting, the European Council will review progress in phasing out the EU's dependency on Russian fossil fuel, oil and coal imports "as soon as possible." Day by day: Monday: State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi pays a two-day visit to Fiji, a part of his 10-day trip to the South Pacific Island countries; EU leaders' extraordinary meeting with a spotlight on Ukraine, defense and energy; Spain marks 40 years since joining NATO with Secretary-General Jens Stoltenberg attending the ceremony; Britain's Queen Elizabeth II's Platinum Jubilee celebrations; Human Rights Council - Organizational meeting on the 50th session kicks off. Tuesday: Russian Foreign Minister Sergei Lavrov visits Bahrain. Wednesday: National referendum over abolishing Denmark's opt-out from EU defense policy; Germany Chancellor Olaf Scholz meets with Croatia's PM Andrej Plenkovic. Thursday: Chinese FM Wang Yi pays a three-day visit to Timor-Leste. Friday: Senior government officials from the United States, Japan and the Republic of Korea hold a face-to-face meeting in Seoul. Saturday: A Quiet day in politics. Sunday: Kazakhs vote on a referendum to modify the constitution. The 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between China and Greece. (With input from agencies)