China supports Niue in taking a development path that suits its national conditions, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi told Niue's Premier and Foreign Minister Dalton Tagelagi during a virtual meeting on Sunday. The Chinese foreign minister is on his tour to the South Pacific island nations. He arrived in Fiji, his fourth stop on Sunday, following the Solomon Islands, Kiribati and Samoa and will also chair the second China-Pacific Island Countries Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Fiji. Wang appreciated Tagelagi's active commitment to China-Niue friendship, saying that since the establishment of diplomatic relations, both sides have always respected and supported each other, and ties between the two countries have developed smoothly. He mentioned the two countries have established a comprehensive strategic partnership, and signed Belt and Road cooperation documents, adding China has become the second largest trade partner of Niue. The practical cooperation in various fields has made positive contributions to the economic and social development and improvement of people's livelihood in Niue, Wang added. China and Niue have supported each other in the fight against the COVID-19 pandemic, and bilateral friendship has been further sublimated, he said. Wang also said that China will strengthen policy communication with Niue to promote high-quality cooperation under the Belt and Road Initiative, boost the cooperation on infrastructure and broadcasting, and at the sub-national level, and expand the blue economy and the biopharmaceutical cooperation, so as to help Niue enhance its sustainable development capabilities. The Chinese side will encourage Chinese enterprises to invest and do business in the Pacific island country, Wang said, adding that China expects to welcome Niue's active participation in the China International Import Expo, displaying its quality and specialty products. For his part, Tagelagi expressed during the meeting his gratitude for China's selfless assistance and strong support to his country in promoting independent development and people's livelihood. Since they established diplomatic ties, the two countries have witnessed effective cooperation based on mutual respect and benefit, the premier of Niue said, adding that the Chinese side has paid a constant attention to Niue's needs and lent a helping hand in time to Niue in its fight against COVID-19. Niue values the friendly Niue-China relationship and the close friendship between the two peoples, he said. While pledging continued commitment to the one-China principle, the premier noted that his country expects to deepen cooperation with China in various fields and work together to promote peace, development and prosperity. During the virtual meeting, the two sides also exchanged views on the cooperation between China and Pacific island countries, and agreed to jointly work to ensure the success of the second China-Pacific Island Countries Foreign Ministers' Meeting. Wang said that China has been promoting cooperation with Pacific island countries with openness. China respects Pacific island countries' traditional relations with other countries in the region, and is willing to further enhance its friendship and cooperation with Pacific island countries on the basis of bilateral consensus, he said. China is committed to peace and development, and stands ready to make its contribution to peace, development and prosperity for the mankind, Wang said. He said that China, as a long-term reliable partner for Pacific island countries in their national development, is willing to work with all sides to build consensus of cooperation, elevate cooperation to a higher level and form greater synergy to help Pacific island countries develop better. Noting that China's support is of great significance to the development of Pacific island countries, Tagelagi expressed hope that the cooperation between China and Pacific island countries, based on mutual respect, will complement the existing strategies in the South Pacific region so as to jointly boost the regional development and prosperity. (With input from Xinhua)