Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi Wednesday called on Asian countries to play an active role in peace, stability and development in the region and the world at large to address the turbulent international situation. Wang made his remarks during a phone conversation with Indonesian Foreign Minister Retno Marsudi at the latter's request. The two sides mainly exchanged views on the Group of Twenty (G20) Bali Summit and agreed to strengthen communication and coordination to ensure its success. Wang told Marsudi that China firmly supports Indonesia in hosting a successful Bali Summit. "Global governance is entering an 'Asian moment,' as Indonesia, Thailand and Cambodia will host important multilateral conferences respectively, and China is also preparing for the BRICS Summit," said Wang. Mentioning that not long ago, Indonesia, Thailand and Cambodia issued a joint statement calling on Asia to strengthen solidarity and meet challenges together, the Chinese foreign minister stressed that China fully supports and actively echoes the statement. Indonesian President Joko Widodo has stressed on multiple occasions that the G20 has been an economic forum rather than a political one since its establishment, and China fully agrees with that, Wang said. He added that the United Nations Security Council is the right platform to discuss political and security issues, while the G20 should stay committed to focusing on macroeconomic policy coordination and fulfill its due mission. China firmly supports Indonesia in playing its role as the presidency, eliminating interference to achieve the established agenda goals, and leading the G20 in the right direction, Wang said. "This is also in line with the common expectations of most G20 members and the international community," he said. The two sides also exchanged views on the Ukraine conflict and called on the international community to work together to reach a ceasefire, stop hostilities, resume peace talks and restore peace.