Rafael Nadal set up a blockbuster French Open quarterfinal against world No. 1 Novak Djokovic on Sunday when he defeated Felix Auger-Aliassime in a five-set fourth round epic and pledged to "fight until the end." Nadal, the 13-time champion at Roland Garros and holder of a record 21 Grand Slam titles, triumphed over the Canadian 3-6, 6-3, 6-2, 3-6, 6-3 in a match that lasted four hours and 21 minutes. It was only the third time in his 17-year, 112-match career in Paris that Nadal was stretched to five sets. Nadal and Djokovic will now meet for the 10th time at Roland Garros and 59th overall in a rivalry that stretches back to 2006. "We know each other well, we have a lot of history. The only thing I can say is that I will be focused, try my best and fight until the end," said Nadal on facing the defending champion on Tuesday. Djokovic has been responsible for two of Nadal's three defeats in Paris – the quarterfinals in 2015 and last year's semifinals. Nadal hailed 21-year-old Auger-Aliassime, who has been working with his uncle and former coach Toni since April last year. "Felix is a great player. He's very young with a lot of power and great mobility," said the 35-year-old Spaniard who has made the last-eight for the 16th time. Djokovic also reached the quarterfinals for the 16th time when he eased to a 6-1, 6-3, 6-3 victory against 15th seed Diego Schwartzman of Argentina. "It's a huge challenge and probably the biggest one that you can have here in Roland Garros. I'm ready for it," said Djokovic of facing his old rival. Djokovic is still to drop a set at Roland Garros after cruising through the first week. He has also won 22 sets in a row, stretching back to his Italian Open title triumph in Rome earlier this month. Djokovic or Nadal could face Spanish teenage sensation Carlos Alcaraz in the semifinals. On Sunday, the 19-year-old romped into his first French Open quarterfinal with a 6-1, 6-4, 6-4 win over Russian Karen Khachanov. "I had a great match from start to finish," said sixth seed Alcaraz who will face German third seed Alexander Zverev in the last eight. The teenager defeated Zverev in the Madrid Masters final earlier this month after also knocking out Djokovic and Nadal.