Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Friday held a phone conversation with Uruguayan Foreign Minister Francisco Bustillo. Wang said that China-Uruguay relations enjoy a solid political foundation, with fruitful results in economic and trade practical cooperation and sound development prospects. As the first Southern Common Market (Mercosur) country to participate in the Belt and Road Initiative (BRI), Uruguay has joined the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank and the BRICS New Development Bank, providing important momentum for bilateral and multilateral cooperation between the two countries, said the Chinese foreign minister. Wang pointed out that since the outbreak of the COVID-19 pandemic, the two countries have joined hands in anti-pandemic fights and overcome difficulties together. Noting that Uruguay was one of the first Latin American countries to voice support for China's fight against the pandemic and provide assistance, Wang said China has always been caring about the Uruguayan side as well and offered strong support in terms of protective supplies and COVID-19 vaccines. Wang said that China is ready to work with Uruguay to deepen political mutual trust, promote the upgrading of China-Uruguay cooperation, and strengthen communication and coordination in international and regional affairs. He expressed the hope that the two sides will sign a cooperation plan to jointly build the Belt and Road as soon as possible, adding that China stands ready to help Uruguay develop into a logistics center in South America. The Chinese side, Wang said, is willing to work with the Uruguayan side to make science and technology innovation a new highlight of their bilateral cooperation, and push forward practical economic and trade cooperation, noting that China welcomes more Uruguayan agricultural and livestock products and high value-added products into the Chinese market. The Global Development Initiative (GDI) and the Global Security Initiative (GSI), both put forward by Chinese President Xi Jinping, have offered Chinese proposals for global development and security from the perspective of building a community with a shared future for mankind, Wang said, adding China sincerely welcomes Uruguay to join the above-mentioned initiatives at an early date and join hands to tackle global challenges. For his part, Bustillo said that Uruguay-China relations have made great progress and enjoy broad prospects. Although the two countries are far apart and differ in national conditions and size, they have set a good example of friendly cooperation between countries of different sizes and conditions, he said, adding that Uruguay firmly supports the one-China principle. The Uruguayan side welcomes and appreciates the GDI and GSI proposed by President Xi, which are highly consistent with Uruguay's foreign policy philosophy, said Bustillo. Next year marks the 35th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between the two countries, he said, adding that the Uruguayan side looks forward to accelerating the process of free trade cooperation with China, bringing the two countries' practical cooperation within the framework of the BRI to a higher level, enhancing coordination on multilateral affairs and continuously upgrading its strategic cooperation with China.