The Bundesliga's Borussia Dortmund have parted ways with their manager Marco Rose, the club confirmed on Friday. "This day is not an easy one for all of us, because the mutual esteem among us was, is and remains great. After a season that was unsatisfactory for various reasons, we had to realize that in many sub-areas we did not get the maximum out of our possibilities," Dortmund CEO Hans-Joachim Watzke said in a statement. "Despite a difficult season with many imponderables, I was convinced of our path," Rose said. "During our conversation, the impression matured in me that the one hundred percent conviction of all those responsible was no longer present. In the end, we therefore decided together to end the cooperation." It has been only one season since Rose took over Dortmund in summer 2021 and he signed a three-year contract back then. The club finished second in the Bundesliga with 69 points. Though it's not comfortable watching Bayern Munich secure their 10th straight domestic league title with three games to go, Rose didn't do worse than his predecessors at least in Bundesliga. However, Dortmund's decision didn't come out of nowhere. They finished only third in the group stage of the UEFA Champions League after losing to Ajax and Sporting CP, two opponents that Dortmund were totally capable of beating. As a result, they went to the UEFA Europa League, but didn't go far there either. Things didn't go well for the club in the DFB-Pokal from which they were knocked out by St. Pauli of 2. Bundesliga in the Round of 16 game. Rose had to be responsible for at least half of the above failures, not to mention that Bayern beat Dortmund to win the early title. The club seems ready to start over after getting rid of their manager and agreeing to sell their best player Erling Haaland to Manchester City for 75 million euros (about $79.4 million). They still have great talents, including Jude Bellingham, Youssoufa Moukoko, Marco Reus and Giovanni Reyna to start over, if their players stay healthy and the club finds a manager who can stay in his position for at least three years. Only three managers have done that in Dortmund for the past 30 years.