Russia’s World No.2 Daniil Medvedev produced a high-class display to ease past the World No. 31 Serbian Miomir Kecmanovic at the French Open, running out a 6-2, 6-4, 6-2 winner to reach the fourth round at Roland Garros. "Everything I wanted to do today worked. I was serving great. I feel like I was almost putting all the returns in and I made his life tough. Maybe he didn't play his best level, [but] I managed from my side to make his life as tough as possible, and it was enough to win today. " said Medvedev. Medvedev is now one win away from reaching a second consecutive quarter-final in the French capital after losing his first four main draw matches in Paris from 2017-2020. The 26-year-old could return to No. 1 in the ATP Rankings on 13 June if he can reach the final. The reigning U.S. Open champion will face 20th seed Marin Cilic in the fourth round, after the Croatian notched a 6-3, 6-0, 6-2 third-round win to end home favorite Gilles Simon's run. 2021 runner-up Stefanos Tsitsipas appeared keen to avoid working overtime again on Saturday afternoon as the Greek raced through to an impressive 6-2, 6-2, 6-1 win over Mikael Ymer to make it four consecutive fourth-round appearances at the clay-court Grand Slam. "Absolutely, yes. It's a good thing to have a match like this every now and then, I think." said Tsitsipas, "Especially when you come in, when you walk into a match with so much confidence and believe that you can really structure your tactics and you feel the confidence of your game itself, having built up through the matches before, having played a lot of rallies but having been in a lot of situations in a match, you are able to kind of awaken the mind a little bit and see the best opportunities and possibilities for yourself. So for sure it was a good performance in ways." Next up for him is Holger Rune of Denmark, the 19-year-old extended his dream debut at Roland Garros as he fending off home favorite Hugo Gaston 6-3, 6-3, 6-3 on Saturday night. (With input from ATP)