Rafael Nadal, who has won 21 Grand Slam titles, is in the same half of matchups with Novak Djokovic, who is one title behind him, for the coming French Open that will begin on Sunday. The draw of the top clay-court tournament happened on Thursday. Nadal has won it 13 times but he lost to Djokovic in the semifinals last year before watching him bring home the championship. The two will meet in the quarterfinals this time if neither is upset on the way. Djokovic hasn't appeared in any Grand Slam event since the U.S. Open in 2021. He went to Melbourne to participate in the Australian Open in January but wasn't allowed to compete because he wasn't vaccinated against COVID-19. Nineteen-year-old Carlos Alcaraz, the rising start that just won the Madrid Open title, is in the same half with Nadal and Djokovic. As the youngest player to make the top 10 in the Association of Tennis Professionals (ATP) rankings since Nadal in 2005, Alcaraz may meet Alexander Zverev, the No. 3 seed of this year's French Open, in the quarterfinals. In the other half of the men's singles bracket, world's No. 2 Daniil Medvedev and No. 7 Andrey Rublev have a chance to meet each other in the quarterfinals. The two Russian players have been banned from the following Wimbledon Open due to the military conflict between their country and Ukraine. Many from the tennis world are against the ban. Stefanos Tsitsipas, who lost to Djokovic in the French Open final in 2021, is in this half too. His likely opponent in the quarterfinals is world's No. 8 Casper Ruud. In the women's bracket, Iga Swiatek, who won the French Open in 2020 and just secured 28 straight wins, is in the same half with Karolina Pliskova. The two may meet in the quarterfinals. The other quarterfinal match of this half is likely to happen between Paula Badosa or Aryna Sabalenka. Defending champion Barbora Krejcikova will compete with Anett Kontaveit, Maria Sakkari and Ons Jabeur in the other half of the matchups. Though the latter three are all seeded players, they may not be as challenging as Naomi Osaka to Krejcikova. As a four-time Grand Slam champion who withdrew from Roland Garros before the second round because of mental health issues. Osaka is not a seeded player for the French Open this year due to lack of activity. She will meet Amanda Anisimova in her first match. Anisimova defeated Osaka in the third round at the Australian Open. Four Chinese players will be competing in the women's competitions at Roland Garros. Zheng Qinwen is in the same half with Swiatek and her first opponent is Maryna Zanevska. Wang Qiang and Zhang Shuai are in this half too and they will meet Jessica Pegula and Camila Giorgi respectively. Wang Xinyu is in the other half and her opponent in the first round is Aliaksandra Sasnovich.