If Real Madrid's journey to Champions League crown amounted to nothing but a miracle after a series of incredible comeback victories, the same could be said for Nottingham Forest's sensational return to the English Premier League. The two-time European Cup winners overcame Huddersfield 1-0 in the Championship playoff final at Wembley Stadium on Sunday to end their 23-year exile from the top flight. But no one could have predicted that Forest would accomplish such a turnaround in such a short span of time when the club suffered their worst start to a season for 108 years. Chris Hughton's side took only one point from their first seven games and languished at the bottom of the table in September. The 63-year-old veteran was duly sacked and replaced by Steve Cooper, who was tasked with guiding the side out of the relegation battle. Fast forward eight months, Forest's fortunes have been completely transformed. In the 38 league games that followed Cooper's appointment, no team earned more points than Forest's stunning 76. They also lost fewest games (six), conceded fewest goals (28) during this time and had the longest unbeaten run (17) in the Championship all season. "I keep using the expression 'like a whipped dog.' If you treat any dog with kindness, then they become a nice dog. If you mistreat one, then they're aggressive, and we were. We've been a mistreated team," Forest captain Joe Worrall said when asked about Cooper's contribution to the team's amazing progress. "He's come in and he's given us that hope, given us that belief and he's just been so nice. He's just killed us with kindness and the fans absolutely adore him." Forest have repeatedly displayed their consistency and resilience. Wales forward Brennan Johnson has been in high-flying form, while Manchester United loanee James Garner and full-back Djed Spence also enjoyed a marvelous campaign after joining the club last summer. It was by no means a brilliant performance on Sunday, but Cooper's side got the job done. In a tense game with no clear-cut chances, an own goal from Levi Colwill in the first half was enough for Forest to be promoted to the Premier League for the first time this century and receive 170 million pounds ($215 million) in guaranteed earnings. "We've reminded the world of how special and how big this football club is and that means a lot to me," an emotional Cooper said of Forest, who were crowned the English champions in 1978 and won back-to-back European Cups in 1979 and 1980 under legendary coach Brian Clough. "There is no doubt that we deserve to be promoted, with the football that we have played, the games that we have won, the attitude we have given after every average performance or loss. I am really proud of everybody connected with the club." Forest have been considered as sleeping giants ever since their final relegation from the Premier League in 1999. After over two decades of efforts, the giants have eventually awoken from their slumber. "We've been desperate for something like this," beamed Cooper. "In the last eight or nine months we've just tried to put a sense of belief in among the club that has then connected with the supporters. "Everybody connected with the football club deserves this today and we're now really looking forward to a positive future. This isn't about me but it's changed my life, potentially anyway. We've brought Nottingham to Wembley, we've taken over the place and here we are in the Premier League."