Inter Milan won the Coppa Italia after an extra-time double from Croatian forward Ivan Perisic earned his side a 4-2 victory over Juventus in Wednesday's final, ensuring Massimiliano Allegri's team will finish the season trophyless. "Today we won a trophy on the pitch, but at the same time we have to recognize everybody who support us and work around us. It's a trophy for everyone," said Steven Zhang, president of Inter Milan, in a post-match interview with Inter TV. "For the future, the objectives remain the same: continue to be competitive, continue to be strong, and growing every single season," Zhang added. Inter, who are still in the running to retain their Serie A title this term, started on the front foot, racing into the lead after six minutes in the Stadio Olimpico in Rome as Nicolo Barella arrowed a stunning strike into the top corner. Juventus responded well with Serbian striker Dusan Vlahovic denied by a superb save from Inter goalkeeper Samir Handanovic in a pulsating first half, before defender Alex Sandro levelled five minutes after the break. Vlahovic then completed the turnaround less than two minutes later to spark wild scenes of celebration among players of Juventus, but Hakan Calhanoglu's expertly converted penalty took the match to extra time. Perisic then took center stage, firing his side in front once more with another penalty, again emphatically converted, before making sure of a first Coppa Italia triumph since 2011 for Inter with a powerful finish into the top corner. Allegri, who was sent to the stands for protesting against a decision late on, will become the first Juventus manager since 2011 to finish a season without having won a single trophy, with Juventus fourth in Serie A and out of title contention. Elsewhere, Chelsea moved to the brink of qualifying for next season's Champions League as they pushed Leeds closer to relegation from the Premier League with a 3-0 victory on Wednesday. Chelsea manager Thomas Tuchel told a press conference on Tuesday that the ownership situation at Stamford Bridge has affected his team's performance. "There were different influences to them and maybe more thoughts about the situation in general," said Tuchel. "The situation is now very, very long and the players also want to feel competitive and know what's going on next season. A player, a guy like Toni (Antonio Rudiger) decided to change the club." Tuchel's side won for the first time since Todd Boehly's consortium agreed a deal to buy Chelsea from Roman Abramovich last week. Mason Mount opened the scoring in the early stages at Elland Road and Leeds suffered another blow when Daniel James was sent off. (With input from agencies)