A grand event marking the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Communist Youth League of China (CYLC) was held at the Great Hall of the People in Beijing on Tuesday. Chinese President Xi Jinping, also general secretary of the Communist Party of China (CPC) Central Committee, delivered a speech at the event. Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation Addressing the gathering, Xi said the CYLC's centenary celebrations aim to encourage the youth to forge ahead on the new journey of realizing the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation. The CYLC's founding on May 5, 1922 under the direct leadership of the CPC marked a milestone in the history of the Chinese revolution and the youth movement, he said. Xi called on the youth to do their best to realize the Chinese Dream of national rejuvenation, comparing the goal to a relay race. 'Glorious mission, weighty responsibility' Speaking at the event, He Junke, first secretary of the Secretariat of the Central Committee of the CYLC, said the league has united nation's youth since its establishment 100 years ago. Since the 18th CPC National Congress, the CYLC has demonstrated that "if the Party calls, the CYLC will act" with practical actions, he said, adding that the young members who love the country and the Party can always be found on the front line of poverty alleviation, scientific and technological innovation, COVID-19 prevention and control, and disaster relief. He called on the youth league members to uphold the CPC's leadership and stay truly connected to the motherland and the people. The CYLC should lead the youth's thinking, serve their growth, continue to train talents for the Party who can shoulder the mission of national rejuvenation, and unite and mobilize young people to work hard for the best results possible in the new era. 'Bridge linking the Party with the people' The CYLC and other people's organizations are all Party-led organizations, Chen Gang, Party Secretary of the All-China Federation of Trade Unions said at the event. The CYLC should play its role of a bridge linking the Party with the people, he said. "A country will be full of hope and have a great tomorrow only when its younger generations have ideals, ability and a strong sense of responsibility," Chen said, urging the CYLC members to strengthen political consciousness, become more advanced, and better represent the people.