Editor's note: Thomas W. Pauken II is the author of "U.S. vs China: From Trade War to Reciprocal Deal," a consultant on Asia-Pacific affairs and a geopolitical commentator. The article reflects the author's opinions and not necessarily the views of CGTN. Another United States foreign policy item on the agenda appears heading for disaster. The upcoming 9th Summit of the Americas, scheduled to be held in Los Angeles, California, on June 6-10, remains mired in confusion with increasing threats of boycotts. The summit was intended to highlight U.S. President Joe Biden's grand vision to restore Washington's diplomatic and economic ties with Latin America (Central and South American counties) and the Caribbean nations. According to a White House press release: "The vital national interests of the United States are inextricably bound to the fortunes of our closest neighbors in the Americas. To that end, the ability of our democracies to close the gap between what we promise and what we deliver depends in no small part on what we do, together, to make it better." Sounds lovely, but the Biden administration has struggled to persuade all heads of state in the western hemisphere to agree to attend the summit, while Washington has refused to deliver official invitations to the leaders of Cuba, Nicaragua and Venezuela. In response to the snub, Mexican President Andres Manuel Lopez Obrador, Honduran President Xiomara Castro and Bolivian President Luis Acre have threatened to not attend. The Biden administration must also confront a diplomatic impasse. Washington officially recognizes Venezuela's opposition leader Juan Guaido as the country's leader. Should the U.S. choose to extend an invitation to Venezuela, it will be either for Guaido or President Nicolas Maduro – not both. The Mexican, Honduran and Bolivian presidents, along with many other sovereign governments, recognize Maduro as the head of state for Caracas. They insist Maduro receive an invitation to the summit, but as of May 26 the White House has not invited either person. Disorganization runs amok Meanwhile the summit is less than 10 days away but the organizers have not completed their invitation list and the White House has not clearly defined how the U.S. can play a more crucial role and provide better solutions for the Americas. The Biden administration, when announcing new updates for the summit, has only reaffirmed vague commitments on favoring sustainability, addressing climate change and promoting democracy. What's more notable is that Biden dropped his pledge to steer a new U.S.-led "economic framework" for the Latin-American and Caribbean region. Washington has recently delivered a $40 billion aid package to Ukraine, but don't expect the U.S. to show similar gestures of generosity to its neighboring nations, while many countries of the Americas are enduring an economic recession. Instead the Biden administration prefers to spread its "woke" propaganda since the summit is themed: "Building Sustainable, Resilient and Equitable Future," for our hemisphere. Apparently, participants invited are expected to discuss Biden's failed "Build Back Better" legislative agenda. The bill, known as "Build Back Better," was voted down by the U.S. Senate earlier this year. Brazil and Guatemala leaders - unlikely to attend The Biden administration has had rocky ties with the Brazilian and Guatemalan governments. Brazilian President Jair Bolsonaro has never met Biden in-person. Brazil will have elections this October and the White House has expressed concerns Bolsonaro would refuse to accept results if he's defeated. Bolsonaro has also leaned in favor of stronger ties with China and Russia and encouraged other nations in the region to boost their diplomatic and economic relations with Beijing and Moscow. But that's understandable since China and Russia have engaged in deeper economic cooperation with CELAC (Community of Latin American and Caribbean States) in recent years. Washington and the U.S. business community have lost influence over the region. The U.S. also has a habit of acting condescending and treating countries in CELAC with an overbearing manner. Consequently, Guatemalan President Alejandro Giammattei announced he will not attend the Summit of the Americas after the U.S. State Department publicly denigrated his attorney general by calling him "corrupt." Such insulting actions are perceived as the U.S. meddling in their nation's domestic affairs. Reversal of fortunes The boycotts, as well as threats of boycotts, by national leaders in the region have demonstrated the growing rift between the U.S. and CELAC member states. The Biden administration thought that by hosting the 9th Summit of the Americas in Los Angeles, all national leaders invited would be very eager to attend, but reality is biting hard for them. The past actions of U.S. hegemony have begun to haunt Washington's foreign policy objectives. "Latin American governments are wanting to show Washington that it is no longer sitting at the head of the table," Brian Winter, editor of Americas Quarterly, is quoted as saying. "This is a summit of equals, instead of Uncle Sam getting to decide unilaterally who is on the guest list." The summit may still succeed and all leaders invited might even attend but that will not resolve the animosity brewing between the U.S. and CELAC. Our world is confronting surging inflation rates, severe supply chain disruptions, tough economic sanctions imposed on Russia that are causing greater concerns over the potential of food and energy shortages. Biden should be addressing these topics at the upcoming summit but his administration would rather talk about the U.S. climate change policy. Additionally, Washington has to reflect more on their prior actions with CELAC. The days of the U.S. bullying smaller nations in the region will no longer bear productive results. President Biden loves to talk a lot about "healing" and "unity" but the Summit of the Americas faces a number of serious controversies, boycott threats and disorganization. It's yet another signal that U.S. influence over the Americas is waning and Washington is failing to comprehend the significance of the current geopolitical trends. The U.S. has largely ignored CELAC in the past few years and it could be too late to turn the tide and expect better times ahead for Washington's sway over the western hemisphere. But upon further reflection, this might not be such bad news after all. (If you want to contribute and have specific expertise, please contact us at opinions@cgtn.com. Follow @thouse_opinions on Twitter to discover the latest commentaries in the CGTN Opinion Section.)