China's development and revitalization is a shared achievement of developing countries, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Monday, adding that it is an enhancement to the force for world peace. It means China will have more resources to defend developing countries' legitimate rights and interests more effectively in the international arena, Wang said during a meeting with Fijian President Ratu Wiliame Katonivere in Suva. Fiji is the fourth stop of Wang's 10-day tour, following the Solomon Islands, Kiribati and Samoa. The diplomat will also chair the second China-Pacific Island Countries Foreign Ministers' Meeting in Fiji. Katonivere expressed admiration for China's achievements. Thanks to China's "selfless support and help," Fiji has accelerated economic development and improved its people's livelihood, he said. Fiji is proud of a robust relationship with China and will continue to firmly adhere to the one-China policy, he said. The country will deepen cooperation with China in various fields, he added. Wang said China has eradicated absolute poverty and achieved a landmark victory in building a moderately prosperous society in all respects. It is now on a new journey toward socialist modernization, he explained. The realization of common prosperity and modernization among the 1.4 billion Chinese – about a fifth of the world's population – would be a remarkable contribution to the development and progress of mankind, he stressed. Wang noted that certain forces in the world do not want to see China prosper and attempt to suppress, delay or even interrupt China's development process. However, the rejuvenation of the Chinese nation is irreversible, he stressed. China will further strengthen mutual trust and support with developing countries, enhance solidary, and jointly strive for common development, he said. No matter how the international and regional situation changes, China always pursues a friendly policy toward Fiji, he said, reaffirming support to Fiji in achieving prosperity and playing a greater role in the regional and international arena.