Chinese Vice President Wang Qishan on Tuesday called for efforts to deepen practical cooperation between China and the Republic of Korea (ROK) and enhance bilateral coordination on issues concerning the Korean Peninsula. Wang, Chinese President Xi Jinping's special representative, made the remarks when meeting with new ROK President Yoon Suk-yeol in Seoul. Wang attended Yoon's inauguration ceremony earlier in the day. This year marks the 30th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between China and the ROK. The two countries are friendly neighbors and important cooperative partners, Wang said, hailing the rapid development of bilateral relations and their expanding common interests. As the world undergoes profound changes and the COVID-19 pandemic, enhancing China-ROK cooperation is increasingly important for the two sides, the region and the world, he stressed. He added, China stands ready to work together with the ROK to further improve their strategic cooperative partnership.Wang said the two countries should strengthen high-level communication and exchanges and deepen practical cooperation, including cooperation in key areas and joint efforts to develop third-party markets. He suggested organizing more activities to enhance the friendship between people in the two countries, as China and the ROK celebrate their 30th anniversary of diplomatic ties and a Year of Cultural Exchanges. He called on the two sides to strengthen communication and coordination on international and regional affairs, jointly uphold multilateralism and the free trade system, and promote regional and global development and prosperity. The two countries should strengthen coordination and cooperation on Korean Peninsula affairs and properly handle sensitive issues, he said. China sincerely supports Seoul and Pyongyang to improve relations and advance reconciliation and cooperation, he said, adding that China is willing to enhance communication with the ROK to promote the denuclearization of the peninsula and lasting peace. Yoon said the ROK government is ready to enhance high-level strategic communication and exchanges at various levels between the two countries on the basis of mutual respect. The ROK is also willing to further strengthen exchanges and practical cooperation in various fields with China and enhance the friendship between people in the two countries, so as to usher in a new era for bilateral ties, he said. The ROK stands ready to enhance communication and coordination with China and jointly promote peace, stability and prosperity on the peninsula, the new president told Wang.