Former Junior French Open singles champions continue to thrive at 2022 Roland Garros, as Grand Slam winners suffered early exits on Wednesday. The 2018 Junior French Open singles champion Coco Gauff had a tough second set, but the American still moved past Belgian Alison van Uytvanck 6-1, 7-6(4). The 18-year-old Gauff now has a stern third-round test against Grand Slam upset artist Kaia Kanepi of Estonia, who reached the French Open quarterfinals in 2008 and 2012, and defeated 48th-ranked Beatriz Haddad Maia 6-4, 6-4 in the second round. "I'm most happy with my movement and being able to create depth and create those opportunities to get short balls," said Gauff, "I think that helped me a lot today." Last year's U.S. Open runner-up Leylah Fernandez, who won the junior title in 2019, took out No. 1-ranked doubles player Katerina Siniakova of the Czech Republic 6-3, 6-2. Next up for the Canadian is Tokyo Olympics gold medalist Belinda Bencic in the third round. The 2013 Roland Garros junior singles titlist held off 2019 U.S. Open champion Bianca Andreescu 6-2, 6-4. Fernandez beat Bencic in their only previous match, at a Billie Jean King Cup tie in 2020. "I think I just played a really good match, especially on important points in the first set," Fernandez said, "In the second set, I was happy I was able to keep that offensiveness and keep going for my shots, and I'm glad that the balls went in when it mattered." Meanwhile, Belarusian Aliaksandra Sasnovich scored her second win over reigning U.S. Open champion Emma Raducanu in the past eight months, taking out the 12th-seeded Briton 3-6, 6-1, 6-1. The 28-year-old will next face three-time major winner Angelique Kerber for the second time in as many weeks after the No. 21 seed from Germany held off wildcard Elsa Jacquemot 6-1, 7-6(2). "I think that I definitely got stronger as the clay season went on," said Raducanu, "It just takes a lot more to win the point on this surface, and, you know, you hit a ball flat, doesn't really do that much. I definitely learnt like when to use the shape and stuff. Yeah, like I still got quite a long way to go on this surface, but overall, I would say I definitely had a good first experience on the clay. I think that I can definitely improve a lot more than what I am at right now." (With input from WTA Official)