China celebrated its 6th National Science and Technology Workers' Day on Monday (May 30), as the country steps up efforts to achieve technological self-reliance. A number of events were held by multiple organizations, including China Association for Science and Technology (CAST) and Ministry of Science and Technology, to mark the occasion. The country's science workers have made significant contributions to push economic development and ensure social stability in the difficult situation under the impact of COVID-19, CAST President Wan Gang said at a ceremony on Monday. Wan said innovation is the first engine to drive development, and technology is a powerful tool to overcome the obstacles. "Constantly reinforcing independent innovation capability is the fundamental way to solve problems." On this special occasion, Chinese media and social media users paid homage to the tens of millions of scientists and tech workers who have devoted themselves to the pursuit of advancing science and technology in the country. The laureates of China's top science award – the State Preeminent Science and Technology Award – have been hailed as the real stars among many whom people should follow. The country has been conferring the award since 2000 to elite scientists for making outstanding contributions to scientific and technological innovation. A total of 35 science workers have been awarded the prize. On the award list, there are many renowned scientists who devoted their lives to their fields. Yuan Longping, an agronomist known as "father of hybrid rice" in China, devoted his life to the research and development of hybrid rice, which helped China feed nearly one-fifth of the world's population. Wu Wenjun, a mathematician, made great contribution to topology, one of the major areas in mathematics, and his theories including Wu formula are included in the textbooks. He also initiated first original research field – mechanization of mathematics. Wang Xuan, known as "father of laser photo typesetting system," invented a computerized laser photocomposition system for Chinese character typesetting, empowering China's press and printing industry for technical reforms. Have a look at the prize winners in the last 10 years. (Images by CGTN's Liu Shaozhen, cover image by CGTN's Zhu Shangfan)