On the fourth competition day at the French Open, World No.1 Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal sailed into the next round, while Carlos Alcaraz and Alexander Zverev survived in five-set thrillers.  Among the women, Belarusian Aliaksandra Sasnovich upset U.S. Open champion Emma Raducanu to reach the third round. Nadal produced an imperious show to secure his 300th Grand Slam match victory by beating local hope Corentin Moutet 6-3 6-1 6-4. Nadal counts 13 Roland Garros titles among his overall 21 majors – the highest among men – and despite his injury-blighted buildup to the clay court tournament he has looked at his usual best in the first two rounds. The Spaniard, who turns 36 next week, will next meet Dutch 26th seed Botic van de Zandschulp with a potential quarterfinal looming against Djokovic who defeated him in last year's semifinals. The 35-year-old Djokovic completed a solid 6-2 6-3 7-6(4) victory over Slovakia's Alex Molcan in the second round on Wednesday to keep his title defense and quest for a record-equaling 21st Grand Slam on track. The top seed will next meet Slovenia's former world No. 43 Aljaz Bedene for a place in the fourth round. Teenage sensation Alcaraz saved a match point and came back from 3-0 down in the final set to defeat Spanish compatriot Albert Ramos-Vinolas. The 19-year-old sixth seed, widely tipped to break the Grand Slam stranglehold of Novak Djokovic and Rafael Nadal, triumphed 6-1, 6-7 (7/9), 5-7, 7-6 (7/2), 6-4 in a four-hour 34-minute epic. "I feel tired," said Alcaraz. "It was a great battle, a great match and we fought until the last point." In a similar scenario, German third seed Zverev overcame a woeful start and survived a late fightback in a 2-6 4-6 6-1 6-2 7-5 victory over world No. 36 Argentine Sebastian Baez. Briton Raducanu, the women's 12th seed, was bundled out in the second round, losing 3-6, 6-1, 6-1 to an inspired Aliaksandra Sasnovich of Belarus. "I still have got quite a long way to go on this surface," said the 19-year-old, who played her first pro match on clay only last month. "I had a good first experience on clay and definitely can improve a lot more than I play right now.” Fourth seed Maria Sakkari is the latest casualty among the top seeds after Tunisia's Ons Jabeur (6) and defending champion Barbora Krejcikova (2) were knocked out in the first round. World No. 1 and red-hot favorite Iga Swiatek and third seed Paula Badosa are the only two players from the top six left in the women's draw. Czech players Barbora Krejcikova and Marie Bouzkova were forced to withdraw from Roland Garros after testing positive for COVID-19. (With input from agencies)