The Golden State Warriors beat the Dallas Mavericks 109-100 in Game 3 of the NBA Western Conference Finals at American Airlines Center in Dallas on Sunday to lead 3-0 in the series. No team has ever overcome a 3-0 deficit in NBA postseason history, and the Mavericks haven't shown any signs that they could be the first. They shot as many as 45 triples, accounting for 60 percent of their total field goal (FG) attempts in Sunday's game, but only saw 13 of them fall into the net. Reggie Bullock, Davis Bertans and Maxi Kleber shot a combined 0-for-14 from downtown. Bullock missed all of his 10 shots from the field, becoming the first player to play over 35 minutes and shoot at least 10 times, but score zero points in a playoff game since Trevor Ariza of the Houston Rockets in 2018. Though the Warriors didn't do much better than the Mavericks in 3-point shooting, they figured out more ways to score. For example, they led in offensive rebounds 14-7, which enabled them to score 14 more second-chance points. Andrew Wiggins made incredible contributions to give the team an advantage in these two stats among other offensive fronts. Though he is playing one of his best seasons in his Warriors career, Wiggins has not played like he should have in many people's minds. He is the team's first choice to defend the opponents' perimeter ace on most occasions and does more off-ball plays offensively. He became a better rebounder this season, especially on the offensive glass, but showed he can do more on Sunday night. Having matched Stephen Curry to shoot a team-high 20 FGs, Wiggins scored 20 points in the paint. He's not a sharp slasher, but by exploiting his size, power and athleticism, he was almost unstoppable in front of the Mavericks' undersized big men. Having Wiggins attack Luka Doncic has been part of the Warriors' plan to fatigue him, but his epic dunk on Doncic in the fourth quarter meant much more than the two points it led to. Wiggins' efficient shooting performance under the rim was the best implementation of the Warriors' offensive scheme on Sunday. The Mavericks continued to shut down their opponents beyond the arc with their signature quick defensive rotation in this game. The Warriors only shot 11-for-32 from the 3-point line. However, the ball always moves faster than the player. The Mavericks would unavoidably leave spacing while rotating defensively. Curry took advantage of this as well as the extra defensive attention on him to continuously find open teammates who cut in toward the rim. He delivered 11 assists on Sunday night, the highest in a playoff game since 2019. Of course, Curry didn't forget to make his regular scoring contributions with 31 points and a court-high five triples. Compared with Curry, Doncic again did everything he could by getting a double-double of 40 points and 11 rebounds, but watched his team lose. This was his third time scoring more than 40 points in the playoffs this season and the Mavericks lost all those games. Doncic increased is aggressiveness in the paint on Sunday, earning himself 17 free throws, 14 of which splashed in. Nonetheless, as Doncic's teammates continued to miss open shots outside, the Warriors grew bolder and bolder in containing him. Sometimes they double-teamed him; sometimes they switched to zone defense. In the end, Doncic slowed down and had to work hard for every point like he did in the previous two games, until he was too tired to do so. Having shot 6-for-9 from the field and 6-for-8 at the free throw line in the fourth quarter, Doncic scored 21 points for the Mavericks. However, none of his teammates were able to stand out to take over his load for at least a moment so he could take a breath. The Mavericks will stay at home for Game 4 of the West Finals on May 24. They don't have much room to adjust how they play because their franchise was built to count on 3-point shooting and Doncic's playmaking on offense as well as the fast rotation of average-size players on defense. If coach Jason Kidd doesn't have any situation-reversing tricks up his sleeves, the Mavericks will finish their playoff journey at American Airlines Center two days later.