The Chinese scientific expedition team of "Earth Summit Mission 2022" successfully summited the Mount Qomolangma on Wednesday, with the first batch of the team members arriving at the summit at 12:22 p.m. and the rest of the team joining about an hour later. The mission made its first breakthrough above 8,000 meters with thirteen team members, or mountaineers, setting out Wednesday morning, and five of them ended up building the world's highest automatic meteorological station at an altitude of 8,830 meters around 11:11 a.m. on the China–Nepal border. Carrying automatic weather stations and an array of radar equipment, 14 members of the Chinese expedition team set out at 2 p.m. on Monday. At around 7 p.m., they successfully arrived at Beiao, or the North Col camp, at an altitude of 7,028 meters. The weather was calm, but one of the members was suffering from altitude sickness. After a good night's rest, the remaining 13 team members left the mountain's North Col camp at 9 a.m. on Tuesday and arrived at the final camp at 8,300 meters Tuesday night. Sixteen teams with more than 270 members began the expedition on April 28. Only 13 mountaineers, instead of all researchers, made the final expedition to summit Mount Qomolangma as researchers may not stand the tough conditions during the final expedition. World's highest weather station Upon arriving at the summit, the mountaineers are now setting up the world's highest automatic weather station at 8,830 meters above sea level. The weather station will help obtain data from the surrounding area, helping scientists better understand the world's third pole. Dechen Ngodrup, lead mountaineer of Qomolangma Scientific Expedition told CGTN that he and his team members were very proud to be part of the research. "We'll set up the world's highest weather stations, and no country has done that before. Once it's installed, data can be transmitted back to base camp and scientists can start their work then." If the station is established successfully, it will replace the one at an altitude of 8,430 meters set up by the British and U.S. scientists on the south side of the mountain in 2019, to be the world's highest of its kind, according to the Institute of Tibetan Plateau Research (ITP), Chinese Academy of Sciences. The expedition covers the widest range of subjects and engages the largest number of team members, and is equipped with the most advanced instruments since the country's second comprehensive scientific research on the Qinghai-Tibet Plateau in 2017. With the application of advanced technologies, methods and means, the expedition aims to find the pattern of climate change and study the variation of greenhouse gas concentrations in the extremely high altitudes of Mount Qomolangma, hence proposing innovative scientific plans for the protection of the highest peak in the world. These scientists and mountaineers also plan to achieve the automatic observation and data transmission of meteorological gradients in the high altitude of the mountain and use a high-precision radar to measure the thickness of ice and snow on the summit for the first time. Read More: China setting up the world's highest weather station at 8,800 meters Live: Chinese expedition team attempts to summit Mount Qomolangma (Cover: The first batch of the "Earth Summit Mission 2022" team holds the Chinese national flag after summiting the 8,848-meter Mount Qomolangma on the China-Nepal border, May 4, 2022. /CMG)