Patrick Mahomes, quarterback of the NFL's Kansas City Chiefs, said the team will involve "everybody" in their offense in the coming 2022-23 season. The Chiefs traded away their six-time Pro-Bowl wide receiver (WR) Tyreek Hill to the Miami Dolphins during the offseason. Having played six seasons in the Chiefs, Hill contributed over 1,100 receiving yards in four seasons and double-digit touchdowns (TDs) in two of them. He was playing a key role in the team's offense when they won the title in Super Bowl LIV in February 2020. According to ESPN's stats, Mahomes connected with Hill and tight end Travis Kelce for 45 percent of his completions, as well as 50 percent of his passing yards and TDs since he became the starting QB in 2018. Now that Hill has left, many understandably have questions about how Mahomes will run the Chiefs' offense. "It's going to be everybody. It's not all going to be one guy. Obviously [Travis Kelce] is still going to get a lot of completions, a lot of yards but the whole receiving room is going to have big days and that can be something we use to our advantage," Mahomes said. The Chiefs worked hard to enhance the receiving options for him by signing free agents JuJu Smith-Schuster and Marquez Valdes-Scantling. The team also drafted Skyy Moore with the 45th pick in in this year's draft and acquired undrafted WR Justyn Ross. "It's a very deep receiving room. It's hard to tell which guys are going to make it because we've got so many good receivers. That's what you want. You want that competition. You want guys competing every single day to make the roster because they're going to help us in the end," Mahomes said. Having practiced with his receiving group teammates for weeks in Texas, Mahomes said they "got some chemistry." "I think it's translated. So far in the practices we've had we feel like we're on the same page ... and we're going to keep building on that," he added. The Chiefs were 12-5 last season, topped the American Football Conference (AFC) West but lost to the Cincinnati Bengals in the AFC Championship Game. Mahomes passed 436-for-658 for 4,839 yards and 37 TDs but with career-high 13 interceptions. Their opponents were figuring out how to contain them with more zone coverage. The team will have to find new offensive solutions to make a difference in the new season.