Mount Qomolangma, or Mount Everest as some may call it, is the world's highest peak. Climbing it is not only the lifetime goal of many mountaineers, but also an important place for scientists. The extreme height, temperature and low air pressure provide a natural lab for many studies. But little research has been conducted on the summit, since heavy equipment and a supporting team are needed just to get there. As the Chinese scientific expedition team of "Earth Summit Mission 2022" successfully summited the peak on Wednesday, let's check out what happened on the 8,848-meter-high peak. Watch: CGTN's six-hour live coverage of the summiting The last time a Chinese team of scientists reached the top was in 2020, when China and Nepal – the two countries that see the peak as a border – jointly announced the summit's new altitude: 8,848.86 meters. This year's mission is the largest scientific expedition on Mount Qomolangma by China, with the most research subjects, most scientists and best equipment. A total of 16 teams with more than 270 members set off on April 28. Only 13 of teams made it to the top as others could not stand the extreme conditions. Watch: Why did the mountaineers choose May 4th to reach the top? The main goal of the expedition is to observe the environmental changes that have happened to the mountain, including the natural changes to atmosphere, water, ecology and surface process. A series of topics will be studied using advanced technology and method for the first time. Those include the interaction between the summer monsoons in east and south Asia, the change of the Asian water tower, the development of ecological system and human activities. One of the most important jobs of this mission is to set up a string of automatic weather stations along the north side of the mountain. The stations are located from the altitude of 5,200 meters to 8,830 meters. The last one is by far the highest in the world. The solar-powered stations are designed to transmit weather data through satellite every 12 minutes for the next two years. Read more: China sets up world's highest weather station