Carlos Alcaraz continued to write new chapters in the tennis history books as the Spanish rising star outclassed American Sebastian Korda 6-4, 6-4, 6-2 on Friday night, becoming the youngest male player to reach the fourth round at the French Open since Novak Djokovic in 2006. It was another achievement in a year full of consummate performances for the 19-year-old. The irrepressible Alcaraz is the youngest champion in the history of three of the four tournaments he has won this year: Rio de Janeiro, Miami and Madrid. He is also the second-youngest player to win two ATP Masters 1000 titles. Only his compatriot Rafael Nadal was younger when he accomplished the feat at 18 in 2005. Now, Alcaraz is aiming to earn another unlikely title at Roland Garros. "I think I am ready," he said after his comfortable win over Korda. "If I win this tournament, I would say it's my golden ticket." The teenager will take on 21st seed Karen Khachanov, a quarterfinalist in 2019, for a spot in the quarterfinals. "I practiced with him just once, but I have watched his matches, so I know that it's going to be a tough match," said Alcaraz. "But at the same time as well, he's a tough opponent and I like tough matches." Reigning champion Novak Djokovic also stormed into the last 16 with effortless ease. With Arsenal legend Arsene Wenger and Hollywood star Woody Harrelson watching in the stands, the Serbian world number one swatted aside Slovenian Aljaz Bedene 6-3, 6-2, 6-2. The top seed will face Argentine 15th seed Diego Schwartzman in the fourth round and a potential explosive quarterfinal showdown with old rival Nadal is on the cards. The Spanish veteran picked up his 301st Grand Slam match-win as he beat Dutch No.26 seed Botic van de Zandschulp 6-3, 6-3, 6-2 earlier in the day. Next up for Nadal, who sets sight on a record-extending 14th French Open title, is a match-up with Canadian youngster Felix Auger-Aliassime, who is coached by none other than Nadal's uncle Toni Nadal. "I already talked with Toni after my match. For me, it's very simple. He's my uncle. I don't think he will be able to want me to lose, without a doubt, but he's a professional and he's with another player," Nadal told a press conference. "I know he wants the best for me. Now he's helping another player. But honestly, for me, it's zero problem, and I know he wants the best for me." Nadal insisted the relationship with his uncle will not be damaged whatever the result. "He is old enough to make his own decisions," said Nadal, who won 16 majors with Toni as his coach. "I cannot thank him enough for all the things he has done for me over so many years. We are a family more than anything else. He is more than just my uncle." Meanwhile, current British number two Neal Skupski revealed that he has given up the chance to watch Liverpool's Champions League final against Real Madrid at the Stade de France on Saturday to concentrate on his French Open campaign. "I did have an opportunity to go, but I turned it down; I'm probably going to regret that," the 32-year-old told reporters. "It looks like I'm going to be playing two matches on Sunday, so a late night on Saturday is not going to be ideal for me. I'll be ready to hopefully watch the Reds win their seventh European title. I won't be going to any fan zone; I'm most likely going to be watching it by myself in my hotel room."