Royal Never Give Up (RNG) of the League of Legends (LOL) Pro League (LPL) defeated T1 of League of Legends Champions Korea (LCK) 3-2 in the 2022 Mid-Season Invitational Final (MSI 2022) on Sunday to win their third tournament title. RNG was competing online at MSI 2022 from Shanghai because of COVID-19. Both teams have won the MSI championship twice. RNG's coach Zhu "Kenzhu" Kai helped LPL's Edward Gaming (EDG) beat LCK's DAMWON Gaming (DK) in the World Championship Final to win the title last year. Having moved to RNG, he brought this traditional LPL powerhouse to the top of the LOL eSports world at MSI 2022. "I want to thank every fan who loves LOL and stays in front of the monitor to watch our matches. We couldn't have come this far without your support," Kenzhu said in the post-match interview. "I also want to thank our players, who have had no rest or vacation in the past month. While other teams were on break, we were playing a lot of practice matches." Kenzhu also expressed gratitude to the other two coaches – Wang "Tabe" Boqin and Yang "Xiaobai" Zhonghe – who didn't appear at the award ceremony, as well as RNG's manager and other staff members. Kenzhu also thanked EDG, his former team, for playing simulation matches with RNG. "They (EDG) have been practicing the 12.9 and 12.10 versions of LOL to prepare for the LPL Summer League, but were willing to return to the 12.8 version for our practice for several days," Kenzhu said. "EDG also helped simulate T1's game-playing. Li 'Flandre' Xuanjun had a lot of one-on-one practice with our top laner Chen 'Bin' Zebin. We are grateful to EDG for their help." RNG's jungler Yan "Wei" Yangwei was named the Final Most Valuable Player for his incredible performance using "Viego, The Ruined King" in the match. Wei credited his teammates, who made his time in the jungle very comfortable. MSI 2022 was the second major international tournament top laner Bin participated in and he secured his first world championship. "It hasn't been the easiest road at the MSI this time," he said. "I'm happy to win the title 3-2 in the Final. I have my teammates and the whole franchise to thank for this." As a veteran in RNG, mid laner Li "Xiaohu" Yuanhao played as top laner for quite a while before. This was his third MSI title. "It's RNG's first win over T1 in a best-of-five match. It's a history-making moment. I'm happy for everyone on the team," he said. Bot laner Chen "GALA" Wei performed consistently well in Sunday's match, but he blamed himself for one mistake that led to RNG's loss in the second bout. "I made a mistake and was killed by Lee 'Gumayusi' Min-hyeong in the second bout. If my 'Xayah, The Rebel' had killed his 'Jinx, The Loose Cannon,' we could have won this bout," GALA said. RNG's support Shi "Ming" Senming became the first in his position to win three MSI championships. "I feel so happy and honored to win three MSI titles with my coach and teammates. I'm grateful for everyone's efforts recently. We won the title in return," he said.