Today is "Xiaoman", or "Grain Buds", the eighth of the 24 solar terms on the Chinese calendar. "Xiaoman" marks the time when summer gradually becomes the dominant season, and the grains are about to ripen. The flavor for this time combines sweetness and bitterness. Cherry is the fruit of summer, as it is the first type of fruit that is ripe as summer arrives. It helps keep the skin tender, making it one of the most valued fruits for young ladies. So how do you paint cherries in Chinese art? Let's check it out. ↓↓↓ The Chinese painting in the video ↑↑↑ is also called Dan Qing. Traditional Chinese paintings often depicts vivid landscapes and portraits. Unlike oil paintings, Chinese painting tends to focus on artistic conception rather than realistic portraits. Chinese painting is an excellent way to help me understand the spirit of Taoism, an influential philosophy by ancient China philosopher Lao Tzu. It is some experience or consciousness beyond feelings. Grain Buds: the summer harvest begins Just like its English name “Grain Buds”, Xiaoman is the subtle period of time when the grains are about to ripen but they aren't quite there yet. It is also referred to as "The Waterfall" in the southern area of China. During the Grain Buds period, the summer harvest begins. "A heavy rainfall makes the river full,” is a famous saying about rain at this time of year. Because of the great increase in precipitation, the rivers are full of water, and there's a bountiful supply of delicious fish and shrimp. It's also harvest season for farmers. Tips for healthy recipes in Grain Buds It is easy for people to get skin diseases on days around the Grain Buds. So it is better to eat fresh vegetables and food that can eliminate dampness and heat, such as rice beans, cucumber, day lily, water fennel, black fungus, carrot, tomato, and bitter herbs. That's why people say summer has a taste full of sweetness and bitterness. The temperature drop between sunrise and sunset can be huge, especially when the temperature drops after rainfall, therefore, it's important to keep warm and go jogging to maintain a good body figure. Worship of the silkworm According to legend, Grain Buds is the birthday of the God of Silkworms, so in the Zhejiang and Jiangsu provinces, a festival is offered to worship the God of Silkworms. Silkworms are very delicate and raising them takes great effort. The air, humidity, coolness, ripeness, and dryness are all crucial to their survival. The ancient Chinese worshiped silkworms as treasures. Silkworm silk can be broadly used as a textile fiber, it's quite important for the fashion industry. Video editor and calligraphy influencer: Qiu Yu Script Written: Qiu Yu Cover Designer: Li Jingjie Copy Editor: Nadeem Gill Producer: Zhang Xiaohe Executive Producer: Liu Yuqi Supervisor: Zhang Shilei