Second-seeded Russian Daniil Medvedev remained on track at the French Open with a routine 6-3, 6-4, 6-3 victory over Serbian Laslo Djere in the second round on Thursday. His compatriot Andrey Rublev also navigated his second four-setter of the Roland Garros fortnight to advance to the third round. The former World No.1 missed the majority of the European clay-court season due to a hernia and lost in the first round in Geneva last week on his return to the ATP Tour. However, the 26-year-old has regained his form in his opening two matches in Paris, and will return to the top spot in the ATP Rankings should he reach the final. "Today I think, to be honest, Laslo was playing the better clay-court tennis," Medvedev said in his on-court interview. "But I managed to fight and just put one more ball in the court than him and it was a very tough match, but I am happy to win." Next up for Medvedev is another Serbian, Miomir Kecmanovic, the 28th seed, in the third round. Medvedev's countryman Rublev fought hard for a 6-3, 3-6, 6-2, 6-3 win over Federico Delbonis of Argentina. Two years after reaching the quarterfinals in Paris, the world No. 7 is into the third round for the second time with Cristian Garin his next opponent. Two days after rallying from two sets down to hold off Lorenzo Musetti in the opening round, last year's runner-up Stefanos Tsitsipas held off a spirited challenge from Czech qualifier Zdenek Kolar to advance 6-3, 7-6(8), 6-7(3), 7-6(7). "He drove me crazy," said Tsitsipas. "It was really frustrating. He was putting every part of his body behind the ball… It was an incredible effort." The world No. 4 has produced outstanding results in all three clay-court ATP Masters 1000 events this year – successfully defending his title in Monte-Carlo, finishing runner-up in Rome and reaching the semifinals in Madrid. The 23-year-old remains the match wins leader on Tour this season, moving to 33-10 with his latest victory. Tsitsipas will next face Mikael Ymer, with the Greek leading their ATP head-to-head series 3-0, including a convincing straight-sets win this year at the Australian Open. (With input from ATP Official)