The Chinese Foreign Ministry has reiterated that any attempt to play the "Taiwan card" to contain China will be firmly rejected by the overwhelming majority of members of the international community and is doomed to fail. Foreign Ministry spokesperson Wang Wenbin made the comment in a written statement on Saturday when responding to a question about the international community's wide support for China's position on Taiwan-related issues at the upcoming World Health Assembly (WHA). The Chinese Foreign Ministry said that China cannot agree with the Taiwan region's participation in this year's WHA, in order to safeguard national sovereignty and territorial integrity. The ministry said that the DPP authorities are bent on initiating proposals relating to the Taiwan region at the cost of disrupting the WHA proceedings and international cooperation, with the real motive of creating "two Chinas" or "one China, one Taiwan." The wide support from the international community once again shows that "the one-China principle is the common aspiration and the overriding trend," Wang Wenbin said in the statement. According to Wang, nearly 90 countries have sent letters to the World Health Organization (WHO) to express their commitment to the one-China principle and opposition to Taiwan's participation in the WHA. The spokesperson also pointed out that for eight consecutive years from 2009 to 2016, China made special arrangements for the Taiwan region's participation in the WHA on the basis of adherence to the one-China principle on both sides of the Taiwan Straits.  "But since the DPP came to power, it has placed its political agenda over the well-being of the people in the Taiwan region, obstinately adhered to the separatist position of 'Taiwan independence,' and refused to admit the 1992 Consensus embodying the one-China principle," said Wang. As a result, the political foundation for the Taiwan region to participate in the WHA has ceased to exist, he added. Noting the DPP's claim of a "gap" in global anti-pandemic efforts is groundless, Wang said the Chinese central government has given the Taiwan region about 400 updates about the pandemic situation since the start of COVID-19, approved 47 visits by public health experts from the Taiwan region to 44 WHO technical activities over the past year, and the Taiwan region received multiple notifications of COVID-19 information from the WHO Secretariat.