Reigning champion Novak Djokovic won in straight sets on his return to Grand Slam action at the French Open on Monday and 13-time Roland Garros winner Rafael Nadal eased to victory, but Naomi Osaka crashed out in the first round. Djokovic defeated Japan's Yoshihito Nishioka 6-3, 6-1, 6-0 in the first night session at full capacity in Paris in his first match at a major since losing last year's U.S. Open final. His attempt to defend his Australian Open title in January ended in chaos and controversy when he was deported from Melbourne for refusing to get vaccinated. "I'm happy to be back. Roland Garros is one of the biggest tournaments in the world, and the memories from last year are still fresh in my head, in my mind," said Djokovic. He will next meet either Federico Coria of Argentina or Slovakia's Alex Molcan, who is working with Marian Vajda – Djokovic's former long-time coach. Nadal, on a quarterfinal collision course with Djokovic, brushed Australia's Jordan Thompson aside 6-2, 6-2, 6-2 to improve his Roland Garros record to 106 wins and just three losses since his 2005 title-winning debut. "It's a good start, of course, straight sets," said Nadal, seeded fifth. "I played good for a while. Then [there are] things that I could do better and I need to do better. But it's a positive start." The Spaniard, who last week downplayed concerns over the recurrence of a foot injury that plagued him in Rome, meets Corentin Moutet in round two after the French wildcard defeated 2015 champion Stan Wawrinka. Four-time Grand Slam winner Osaka was knocked out 7-5, 6-4 by Amanda Anisimova – the same player who ended the Japanese star's title defense at the Australian Open this year. Osaka served eight double faults and committed 29 unforced errors on her return to Roland Garros, after withdrawing in 2021 when she refused to honor mandatory media commitments before revealing she had been suffering from depression. "I thought I tried really hard, and I just feel like it was a bit unfortunate because I wasn't able to play as many matches leading into this tournament," said Osaka, unseeded at a Grand Slam for the first time since the 2018 Australian Open. Women's defending champion Barbora Krejcikova also crashed out, losing 1-6, 6-2, 6-3 to 19-year-old Diane Parry of France in her first match since February following injury. Fifth-seeded Anett Kontaveit became the fourth top-10 player to fall before the end of the second day, going down 7-6 (7/5), 7-5 to Australia's Ajla Tomljanovic. Iga Swiatek, the favorite for the women's title, stretched her winning streak to 29 matches by dispatching Ukrainian qualifier Lesia Tsurenko 6-2, 6-0 in 54 minutes.