Vincent Labrune, president of Ligue 1, has hit back in a letter at the attacks by La Liga boss Javier Tebas against Paris Saint-Germain (PSG) over Kylian Mbappe's decision to stay at Parc des Princes. The transfer soap opera of Mbappe between PSG and Real Madrid came to an end last week as the 23-year-old French genius signed a three-year contract extension with PSG, instead of joining Real. The Spanish top football league was furious at Mbappe's decision and filed "a complaint against PSG before UEFA, the French administrative and fiscal authorities and European Union authorities," claiming that the signing "attacks the economic stability of European football." "What PSG are going to do renewing Mbappe with large quantities of money (who knows where and how they pay it) after posting losses of €700 million in recent seasons and having a wage bill of over €600 million is an INSULT to football. [PSG president Nasser] Al-Khelaifi is as dangerous as the Super League," Tebas posted on Twitter. In response, Labrune said he's "shocked" by his La Liga counterpart's attacks. "The fact that you publicly and repeatedly take this position against Ligue 1 on this topic and denigrate our League and our clubs is both unacceptable and manifestly false," he wrote. Moreover, Labrune used the debt problems of Real and Barcelona against Tebas over club financial management. Real have "two of the highest paid players in world football sat on their bench," namely Gareth Bale and Eden Hazard. Barcelona reportedly had "debt level of 1.5 billion euros." The club's president Joan Laporta admitted in August 2021 that Barcelona's debt reached 1.35 billion euros (about $1.45 billion). Labrune also retorted to Tebas by calling his attacks on Lionel Messi and Sergio Ramos, who departed Barcelona and Real respectively for PSG last year, "disrespectful." "Now your disrespectful smears seem to be directed towards Kylian Mbappe who is widely acknowledged to be one of the world's greatest players and who simply didn't join your league, by choice, despite having received a similar offer," the Ligue 1 boss wrote.