Ralf Rangnick, who was supposed to stay at Manchester United as a consultant after working as the interim manager this season, will leave the club to focus on managing the Austrian national team, United announced on Sunday. "We would like to thank Ralf Rangnick for his efforts as interim manager over the past six months," the "Red Devils" said in a statement. "By mutual agreement, Ralf will now focus solely on his new role as manager of the Austria national team and will not therefore be taking up a consultancy role at Old Trafford. We would like to wish Ralf the best of luck in this next chapter of his career." Rangnick took over United in November 2021 and began with a sweet 3-2 win over Arsenal at home. However, that became one of the very few highlights of the club in the disappointing 2021-22 season. They were knocked out of the UEFA Champions League, UEFA Europa League and FA Cup in the following months and suffered humiliating losses to Manchester City (4-1), Liverpool (4-0) and Brighton & Hove Albion (4-0). In the end, United only ranked sixth in the Premier League, missing the Champions League qualification for next season. ESPN revealed that the club's ace Cristiano Ronaldo made clear to United he won't stay if Rangnick is appointed as the formal manager. In the end, the team reached agreement with Erik ten Hag for him to become the manager of the "Red Devils." When asked about his attitude over Rangnick's consultancy role, ten Hag said: "That's on the club." Despite the failed season, it's unfair to blame Rangnick for everything because United didn't offer him enough support. The club sent Anthony Martial to Sevilla on loan during the winter transfer window and suspended Mason Greenwood, who is currently on bail after being arrested in January over allegations he raped and assaulted a young woman. Rangnick wanted enhancements in the striker position and made a list on which there were Luis Diaz of Porto, Julian Alvarez of River Plate and Dusan Vlahovic of Fiorentina. None of them arrived in the end. Rangnick's manager career in Austria will begin with the UEFA Nations League against Croatia on Friday.