China opposes the politicization of issues of technological nature by certain governments and the suppression of high-tech companies of other countries, said Zhang Jun, China's permanent representative to the United Nations (UN), on Monday. "We oppose politicizing issues of technological nature. The world of science is not a zero-sum battlefield. Technological innovation should not produce only one champion," said Zhang. It is worrisome that certain governments have politicized issues of scientific and technological nature, generalized the concept of national security, abused state power and wantonly intensified their suppression of high-tech companies of other countries, he told a UN Security Council meeting on technology and security. "In order to maintain their monopoly in science and technology, they have established exclusive circles and put forward some so-called strategy or framework," Zhang noted. "They have imposed technology blockades on other countries and engaged in bullying practices in science and technology. They have interfered with and obstructed economic, trade, scientific and technological cooperation among other countries," he added.This approach, which carries the obsolete Cold War mentality, runs counter to the spirit of international cooperation and the trend of the times, harms the collective interests of all countries, and is doomed to fail, he said. "We urge certain governments to adopt a rational and open-minded approach, view scientific and technological development and international cooperation from the right perspective, and stop groundless attacks and restrictions on high-tech companies of other countries," he said.Noting that in the face of global challenges, solidarity and cooperation is the right path, he said China calls on the countries concerned to stop creating divisions around the globe, including the Asia-Pacific region, stop geographical confrontation, stop drawing lines on the basis of ideology and using coercive measures to force other countries to take sides, stop decoupling economy and science and technology, and stop the destructive practices affecting the stability in global supply chain and economic recovery. (Cover: File photo of Zhang Jun, China's permanent representative to the UN. /Xinhua)