In 2022, China ranked as one of the best in computing power among major economies, according to a recent industry report which highlighted the country's impressive advances in the field, noting that such high-end power has become the driving force in promoting the digital economy. With booming cloud computing, artificial intelligence (AI) and 5G, among other emerging technologies, analysts believe that computing power has become an important infrastructure which will shape China's future technological landscape. Earlier this year, the country started a mega project of building an integrated national big data system to improve overall computing power and resource efficiency, which involves establishing eight national computing hubs in the country's economic powerhouses and also less developed resource-rich regions, along with 10 national data center clusters. One of such 10 blueprinted clusters is located in Guiyang City of southwest China's Guizhou Province. As the city is a pioneer in implementing the national big-data strategy, it was then selected as the holder of world's first national-level big data expo, the China International Big Data Industry Expo (the Big Data Expo), in 2015. The Big Data Expo 2022, the eighth fair of its kind, will be held online on May 26 with focus on digital growth and value, displaying avant-garde achievements of global big data development and boosting global digital economy. Guizhou pioneers China's big-data growth Guizhou has become the front runner of China's big-data industry since it was approved to build the country's first national big-data comprehensive pilot zone in 2016. The province has then attracted heavyweight enterprises such as Apple and Huawei as well as world-famous research institutes seeking to establish big data centers and regional headquarters. It is now one of the regions with the highest number of mega-data centers in the country and even in the world, with its rich big-data resources injecting growth momentum into the digital economy. As a core part of the National Big Data (Guizhou) Comprehensive Pilot Zone, Guiyang and Gui'an New Area as a whole has witnessed rapid growth in big-data businesses over the last few years thanks to its advantages in climate, power supply, and network infrastructure. Between 2016 and 2021, Guizhou's digital economic growth rate ranked first in China for six consecutive years. In 2021, the added value of its digital economy exceeded 650 billion yuan ($97 billion), accounting for 34 percent of the province's total GDP. Mega big data project According to the National Development and Reform Commission (NDRC), China's top economic planner, the country started a mega project in February 2022 to build an integrated national big data system to improve overall computing power and resource efficiency, establishing eight national computing hubs and 10 national data center clusters in the country. As the country rides the digitalization wave with surging demand for computing capacity, shortages of energy and land have limited China's expansion of data centers in the more developed regions. The NDRC stated that creating such a national computing power network will support less developed regions, with abundant renewable energy resources, to store and process data transmitted from economically advanced areas to address soaring demand and regional capacity imbalance. In addition, China's top economic planner also estimated that China's demand for computing power will surge by over 20 percent annually in the near future. Digital future of economy With China's 14th Five-Year Plan (2021-2025), the country aims to raise the proportion of the added value of core digital economy industries in its GDP to 10 percent in 2025, up from 7.8 percent in 2020. By 2025, China's digital transformation of industries will reach a new level, digital public services will become more inclusive, and the digital economy will governance system improve noticeably. In addition, the country will also strengthen its support of 6G research and development, enhance innovation in strategic fields such as integrated circuits and AI, as well as facilitate the development of new business modes. Read More: China ranks one of world's best computing power among major economies