Mohammed Ben Sulayem, president of the International Automobile Federation (FIA), said that seven-time Formula One (F1) World Drivers' Champion Lewis Hamilton of Mercedes must remove his jewelry during the race as the rule requests. F1 has prohibited "the wearing of jewelry in the form of body piercing or metal neck chains" during the competition. Hamilton agreed to take off some of the accessories he's wearing, like his earrings, according to Sky Sports reporter Ted Kravitz, but not his nose stud. F1 gave Hamilton a two-race "grace period" to remove his nose piercing via surgery, which means he needs to have it done before the Grand Prix in Monaco between May 27 and 29. However, Kravitz revealed on his show "Notebook" that Hamilton won't remove his nose stud. "He doesn't want to, doesn't think it's something the FIA should be doing, so it looks like the war between Hamilton and the FIA continues," Kravitz said. "Is he going to rack up fines when we get to Monaco and he hasn't taken it out because the hole has closed up? It's not as easy as him being able to just take it out like he can his earrings." Hamilton expressed his attitude toward the jewelry ban as well. "If they stop me, then so be it. We've got a spare driver," he said before the Grand Prix in Miami. If he doesn't take his nose stud out, he may face a potential ban from Monaco. Ben Sulayem's remarks seemed to have proved that possibility. "That's up to him. There are fines that apply. It's like if someone speeds on the roads – you can't stop them doing it but they get fined, even if it was accidental," the F1 boss said when asked about Hamilton's situation. "You can't let people off because they are your friends. There has to be one rule for all, and that's that." Hamilton has been going through some rough time on the track as well. He was only sixth in Miami and is currently 68 points behind championship leader Charles Leclerc. After finishing a point-less 13th in the Emilia Romagna Grand Prix in Italy, he admitted that he's for sure out of the world championship race of this season.