Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi on Monday urged Asia-Pacific countries to reject any attempt to introduce military bloc or camp confrontation into the region. Wang made the remarks while delivering a virtual speech at the opening ceremony of the 78th session of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific (ESCAP). Noting that ESCAP was born in China's Shanghai 75 years ago, Wang said Asia-Pacific is once again at a crossroads in history. "The peace and prosperity of the Asia-Pacific region is not only about the fate of the region, but also about the future of the world," he said. He then urged the region to "unswervingly maintain peace and stability, adhere to the purposes and principles of the UN Charter, and unequivocally reject any attempt to introduce military bloc or camp confrontation into the Asia-Pacific region." China will firmly defend the peace in Asia-Pacific, promote its development, and participate in cooperation in the region, Wang pledged, adding that China will also support ESCAP in playing a greater role in promoting the regional development. In his address, the Chinese foreign minister also called on the region to make concerted efforts to promote economic development, advance the building of an Asia-Pacific Free Trade Zone, and build an open region to bring about more "Asia-Pacific opportunities" for the recovery and growth of the world economy. The regional countries should also draw upon each other's strengths to achieve win-win cooperation, strengthen the docking of development policies and deepen pragmatic cooperation to contribute to the implementation of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, said Wang. With the theme of "A Common Agenda for Advancing Sustainable Development in Asia and the Pacific," the ESCAP session is being held in a hybrid format from May 23 to 27, 2022, in Bangkok. (Cover: Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi addresses the opening ceremony of the 78th session of the Economic and Social Commission for Asia and the Pacific via video link in Guangzhou City, south China's Guangdong Province, May 23, 2022. /Chinese Foreign Ministry)