China will unswervingly expand and deepen opening-up at a higher level, and is willing to share development dividends with Pacific Island countries, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Sunday. Wang made the remarks during a meeting with Henry Puna, general secretary of the Pacific Islands Forum, in Suva, the capital of Fiji. Fiji is the fourth stop of Wang's 10-day tour, following the Solomon Islands, Kiribati and Samoa. The diplomat is on an official visit to Fiji, where he will also chair the second China-Pacific Island Countries Foreign Ministers' Meeting. Wang said the Pacific Islands Forum is the most representative intergovernmental organization in the South Pacific region, adding that China is ready to further enhance dialogue and mutual trust with the secretariat of the forum and initiate more cooperation. China supports countries in the region to advance the 2050 Strategy for the Blue Pacific Continent, and is willing to explore prospects of cooperation in fields such as marine environmental protection and e-commerce, he said. The Chinese economy is full of vitality, he said, stressing that sporadic COVID-19 outbreaks will not stop China's development. China welcomes more high-quality products from the island countries to enter its market, he added. Wang said his tour in the South Pacific is aimed at enhancing win-win cooperation and friendly exchanges with Pacific Island countries, calling it a "tour of peace, friendship and cooperation."China will continue to tighten ties with Pacific Island countries following principles of mutual respect, equal treatment, win-win cooperation, and openness and inclusiveness, he stressed. China is willing to conduct more third-party cooperation with all countries – particularly those with traditional influence in the region – to help Pacific Island countries accelerate development and revitalization, he said. Puna said China is an important dialogue and development partner of Pacific Island countries, hailing its "indispensable contributions" to their development. He expressed hope that Pacific Island countries will expand cooperation with China in fields such as economy and trade, education and the blue economy, harness opportunities brought by China's development, and realize sustainable and diversified development. The two sides also exchanged views on efforts to tackle climate change.