China and Pakistan vowed on Sunday to further deepen all-round cooperation in areas such as energy, industry, agriculture, information technology and transportation infrastructure. The agreement was made during a meeting between Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi and Pakistani Foreign Minister Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari in Guangzhou City, south China's Guangdong Province. Noting that this is Bilawal's first bilateral visit abroad since assuming office last month and also the first offline high-level interaction between the two countries after the establishment of the new Pakistani government, Wang said the visit has further consolidated the traditional friendship between the two countries. The solidarity and cooperation of the two countries has become an important stabilizing factor in a turbulent and changing world, he said, calling for joint efforts in building a closer China-Pakistan community with a shared future. Bilawal, for his part, said Pakistan, as an "iron-clad" friend of China, is glad to see its achievements and is convinced that no force can stop it from moving forward. The Pakistan-China friendship is the cornerstone of Pakistan's foreign relations, and also the inevitable choice of Pakistan, he said. The Pakistani side is committed to the one-China policy, and supports China in safeguarding all of its core interests, he added. The two sides also agreed that any terrorist attack against Chinese citizens in Pakistan is unacceptable and any despicable attempt to undermine China-Pakistan friendship will not succeed. Three Chinese teachers and a Pakistani national were killed in an explosion at the University of Karachi on April 26, which was claimed by the Baloch Liberation Army. Wang said, China supports Pakistan in speeding up the investigation of the case, finding the perpetrators and punishing them, and will continue to provide support and assistance to Pakistan in its fight against terrorism. The two sides agreed that the world has entered a period of turbulence and change, and the international community's call for peace and development has become stronger, he said. The two sides also agreed that the sound situation of peace, stability, cooperation and development in Asia is the result of the concerted efforts of countries in the region and should be cherished all the more, he added. (Cover: Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi (R) meets Pakistani Foreign Minister Bilawal Bhutto-Zardari in Guangzhou City, south China's Guangdong Province, May 22, 2022. /China's Foreign Ministry)