The 2021/22 UEFA Europa League final will be contested by Eintracht Frankfurt and Rangers at Seville's Ramón Sánchez-Pizjuán Stadium on Wednesday (May 18). Bundesliga side Eintracht Frankfurt's players and coaching staff did a pitch walk at the stadium on Tuesday, with head coach Oliver Glasner saying they felt in "amazing condition." "We will need an absolute top performance tomorrow but we are ready for the final," Glasner said. "We feel in an amazing condition. Both teams distinguish themselves with big emotion, big support and play with big enthusiasm. So that's why I think tomorrow the whole of Europe can look forward to this Europa League final." The Bundesliga side look to win their first European silverware in 42 years as their last title came in the 1980 UEFA Cup over fellow Bundesliga club Borussia Monchengladbach, who they beat on away goals over two legs. Scottish side Rangers trained at the Ramon Sanchez-Pizjuan Stadium on Tuesday, aiming to make history to claim their first Europa League trophy. "Well, the mood is very, very good. We're all excited to, of course, play the final tomorrow, " said Giovanni van Bronckhorst, the Rangers manager, "The preparation went really well. You know, we had an extra day to prepare for the game tomorrow in Glasgow. So, we traveled yesterday, tonight a light training and tomorrow we have the final meetings to, you know, for our game plan. But we are ready for tomorrow." The clubs have been paired together just once previously in European competition, Frankfurt comprehensively beating Rangers 12-4 on aggregate in the semi-final of the 1959/60 European Cup after which they returned to Glasgow for the final, where they lost 7-3 at Hampden Park to Real Madrid. In addition, the final is also the biggest game in the history of both Rangers and Eintracht Frankfurt from a financial point of view. The winners will have a guaranteed place in the group stage of next season's Champions League, reaping anything from $100-200 million. (With input from AP)