Having been 2-0 down to a formidable PSG side featuring the world's highest-paid player Kylian Mbappe, seven-time Ballon d'Or winner Lionel Messi and Brazil's second-highest goalscorer Neymar, Real Madrid somehow found a way to come out on top. Having been 3-0 down to English powerhouse Chelsea, whose attacking prowess and defensive solidity were instrumental in their incredible journey to "Kings of Europe" last season, Real Madrid somehow clawed their way back and triumphed in extra time. Having been 5-3 down to Pep Guardiola's Manchester City, who have dominated the Premier League by winning four league titles in the last five seasons, Real Madrid somehow managed to snatch victory from the jaws of defeat. Win or lose the final, the club's miracle 2021/2022 Champions League run will count as one of their most unforgettable European campaigns. If they do outlast six-time winners Liverpool in Paris on Saturday night, Madrid's name will be etched further into the history of European football with a record-extending 14th title. On the verge of capping a perfect end to the season, Madrid manager Carlo Ancelotti could not contain his excitement. "It gives me vertigo thinking about being in this final," the Italian tactician told a press conference on Friday. "But I take it in my stride because it's a success for us. We know the history of this club and to get here is very important. It has been a very good season for us. We are very close to achieving the maximum, and we will try. This team manages these types of games well. The veterans help the youngsters to play in an atmosphere of calm, enthusiasm and confidence. "You have to bring everyone's talent together to make a team that is together and committed. And then as well, the history of this club has pushed us in difficult moments. To win, we will have to deserve it tomorrow." It's worth noting that Madrid boast a marvelous record in European finals, having won their last seven. The last time the club fell at the last hurdle was in 1981, when they lost to none other than Liverpool in the old European Cup. In sharp contrast to Madrid's tough path to the final, Liverpool had a relatively easy route through the knockout stages as they comfortably beat unfancied Inter Milan, Benfica and Villarreal along the way. But Liverpool boss Jurgen Klopp insisted they have what it takes to dethrone the Spanish perennial Goliath. "If you look at the history of the club, if you look at the experience of the other team, the way Real Madrid celebrate the comebacks, I would say it's Real Madrid who are favorites because of experience," observed Klopp during a press briefing. "But I want us to be on the same level, thinking on the same level. I want us to be us in this game. "We obviously played some really, really good stuff this season. We are not here by surprise or we got a ticket or something like that, we deserved it. We can talk about what Real Madrid achieved in the past and this season, how good their players are, we probably could write a book together now about this team. But we are good as well and that's what we want to show." Liverpool head into their showdown with Madrid on the back of the bitter disappointment of losing out to City in the Premier League title race last weekend. But having already won the English League Cup and FA Cup, Klopp side could still seal a "cup treble." "We are all in a good mood. If you are healthy, as the boys obviously are, life gives you opportunities again and again and, in this case, it is the Champions League final," he said. "Three finals in five years is exceptional because this competition is really difficult. It is really special. We really want to give it a proper go and we will see." Liverpool's winning chances will be hugely boosted by the return of key playmaker Thiago Alcantara, who was forced off in last Sunday's win against Wolves with an Achilles injury. Virgil van Dijk, Fabinho and Joe Gomez are also back to full training after recent injuries. Klopp acknowledged Madrid were too strong when the sides last met in Kyiv in 2018, but the German noted while hopes of an unprecedented quadruple for his club have ended, the season could still end enjoyably for him, the players and fans. "If you are a football person then you know what my boys did this season so far is absolutely exceptional," he beamed. "Of course, in the end, it is all measured by the color of the medal you get after a game. We are ready for that. History will tell us what people say about us. I am really happy with what we did so far."