The 2022 NBA playoffs took a day off on Thursday for the eight teams participating in the Eastern and Western Conference semifinals to get some rest. Having trailed 2-0 in the series, the Philadelphia 76ers will host the Miami Heat in Game 3 at Wells Fargo Center in Philadelphia on Friday. There is a possibility for the 76ers' superstar center Joel Embiid to play in Game 3, according to ESPN. Embiid has not played any game since he was elbowed (on his face) by Pascal Siakam of the Toronto Raptors in Game 6 of the first-round series. Embiid suffered a concussion and a right orbital fracture. He is still listed as being out for Game 3 at the moment. Doc Rivers, head coach of the 76ers, remained conservative with Embiid when asked if Embiid is cleared from the NBA's concussion protocol at the press conference on Thursday. "No, not yet," Rivers said. "Still has hurdles to get over. I'm not a doctor. I don't even know all, I mean, besides the concussion protocols, he has to get through all that and all the other stuff with the injury." The 76ers are in desperate need for Embiid's destructive power on offense and solid protection of the paint for defense after two straight losses in the East semifinals. Even if Embiid doesn't come back with 100-percent recovery, he will bring a big change to the series. Heat head coach Erik Spoelstra knows how important Embiid is to the opponents. "It changes dramatically," Spoelstra said on Wednesday night. "You're talking about MVP talent, you know? So we'll just have to see." The Heat missed their starting point guard, Kyle Lowry, in the two games they won. Lowry is listed as questionable for Game 3. The Golden State Warriors will play against the Memphis Grizzlies in Game 3 of the Western Conference semifinals at Chase Center in San Francisco on Saturday. Dillon Brooks of the Grizzlies, who was ejected with a flagrant 2 foul in Game 2, was suspended from Game 3 by the league. "It's disappointing. It's an unfortunate circumstance. Obviously, we're going to honor the league's decision, but you know it's a tough play," Grizzlies head coach Taylor Jenkins said. "We obviously wish Gary Payton a speedy and healthy recovery. You don't want to see anybody get hurt. It's very unfortunate what happened there." What Jenkins called "a touch play" was a hit on the head of Gary Payton II from behind by Brooks, resulting in a fractured left elbow as well as ligament and muscle damage of Payton II. As Payton II will be reevaluated in two weeks, he won't return in the series against the Grizzlies. The Warriors have lost their best defensive weapon to contain Ja Morant. "Gary is out for the foreseeable future, for weeks. That's the only thing that matters to us," Kerr said. "He's bummed. He's got a huge brace on his arm, and he's gonna be out for a long time. He's crushed... In the spotlight, playing in the playoffs, playing a huge role, playing well, that's all been taken away from him. We all feel terrible for Gary, he deserves better." The other East semifinals between the Milwaukee Bucks and Boston Celtics will come back on Saturday. The Celtics missed the newly-named Defensive Player of the Year Marcus Smart in Game 2, but managed to secure a big win to tie the series 1-1. Smart said on Thursday he saw "strong likelihood" to appear in Game 3. He revealed that he was hit closer to the knee and, as a result, the fluid building up from the injury was restricting movement there." Once that goes away, I should be back to feeling to myself." Smart said. "Everything else is healing up the right way." "We'll know more tomorrow based on how it feels today," Celtics head coach Ime Udoka said. "But obviously looks better today than he did. Just moving around, walking around the last few days when he couldn't go. We'll know more tomorrow." "Obviously, it's encouraging to see him taking any steps forward," Smart's teammate Robert Williams III said. "I told him, 'Make sure you're good. We want you out there, but make sure you're straight.'"