A new study based on an Omicron variant transmission model has shown that China risks a deluge of infections that could cause over a million deaths if the country abandons its dynamic zero-COVID policy. The study, led by Chinese researchers at Shanghai's Fudan University, estimated that an Omicron wave would result in a projected intensive care unit peak demand of 15.6 times the existing capacity and cause approximately 1.55 million deaths in China. The related paper was published on the website of the international journal Nature Medicine Tuesday. The study said that China would be hit hard by a large Omicron wave if restrictions were eased due to low vaccine uptake among older groups and reliance on less effective jabs. The debate has thus shifted towards identifying strategies for minimizing disruption to the healthcare system in the case of a nationwide epidemic. To this aim, the research team developed an age-structured stochastic compartmental susceptible-latent-infectious-removed-susceptible (SLIRS) model of SARS-CoV-2 transmission calibrated on the initial growth phase for the 2022 Omicron outbreak in Shanghai. It compared situations in China and its Shanxi and Shandong provinces to project the COVID-19 burden if the dynamic zero-COVID policy hadn't been adopted, in terms of the number of cases, patients requiring hospitalization and intensive care, and deaths, under hypothetical mitigation scenarios. The model also considers age-specific vaccine coverage data, vaccine efficacy against different clinical endpoints, waning immunity, antiviral therapies, and non-pharmaceutical interventions. The scientists found that the level of immunity induced by the March 2022 vaccination campaign would be insufficient to prevent an Omicron wave. They said such a wave would exceed critical care capacity, with intensive care unit peak demand at 15.6 times the existing capacity, and cause about 1.55 million deaths. Nonetheless, the research team predicted that protecting vulnerable individuals by ensuring accessibility to vaccines and antiviral therapies and maintaining the implementation of non-pharmaceutical interventions could be sufficient to prevent an overwhelmed healthcare system, suggesting that these factors should be points of emphasis in future mitigation policies. (All graphics courtesy of Fudan University Research Team)