South China's Guangdong Province opened the country's first provincial-level employment and entrepreneurship incubation base for the visually-impaired this May, and whether people with vision loss want to increase their employment chances, or launch a startup project, as long as they have certain skills, they can ask the base for help. Individuals with visual impairments can receive job training while working at the base. Chen Yingya works as a barista at a cafe inside the base, where she learned to make coffee after her vision began to decline. "One day, I saw an advertisement for a coffee-making training program. I took the course and now I am getting work experience at this cafe," said Chen. The training program is run by the Guangzhou Rongai Social Service Center. The cafe at the incubation base aims to help trainees get a taste of the work environment, before entering the real job market. "We hope to train around 50 to 100 visually-impaired baristas a year, and we hope at least 30 of them can get a job in the coffee industry every year," said Zhang Qianxin, the director of the Guangzhou Rongai Social Service Center. On the fifth floor, Hao He and his team opened a massage center. Hao has more than 20 years of experience as a traditional Chinese massage therapist, and has won multiple national awards. He wants to have his own business after getting a test drive at the base. "I have enough professional massage skills, and now at the base, I want to gain more experience and skills in store management, so I can one day realize my dream of owning my own massage parlor," Hao said. The base is established and organized by government organizations, and managed by a non-governmental organization (NGO). "The incubation base is established by Guangdong Provincial Disabled Person's Federation and organized by The Disabled Employment Service Center of Guangdong Province. They are both government organizations," said Ke Mofu, vice president of the Guangdong Provincial Disabled Person's Federation. "But we have asked a third party, Guangdong Health Care Massage Association, to manage the base. It is a non-profit NGO and will ensure that the base remains a charitable entity," Ke added. Building an employment and entrepreneurship incubation base is just one of the federation's strategies to help people with disabilities find jobs. The federation also runs a serious of programs, such as vocational skills competitions, one-on-one job consultation sessions and specialized job fairs.