Finnish leaders on Thursday announced their support for Finland to join the NATO military alliance amid rising public support for NATO membership following the start of the Russia-Ukraine conflict. In a joint statement, Finland's President Sauli Niinisto and Prime Minister Sanna Marin said, "Finland must apply for NATO membership without delay." "NATO membership would strengthen Finland's security. As a member of NATO, Finland would strengthen the entire defense alliance," the statement reads.  "We hope that the national steps still needed to make this decision will be taken rapidly within the next few days," the leaders said. Read more: As Helsinki signs new security agreements, do ordinary Finns want to join NATO?Analyst: Admitting Finland and Sweden into NATO would worsen European security Finnish Foreign Minister Pekka Haavisto said on Tuesday that Finland would be ready to apply for joining NATO after a few more steps. "When all our political parties are ready – and the latest, the Social Democrats on Saturday – then we are ready to move as [a] government forward and then this discussion, of course, on the NATO membership, will come to the Parliament, starting probably next Monday. But then we are, after that, ready to send an application," Haavisto said in an interview with CNBC. The foreign minister said earlier that Russia's military action in Ukraine had changed Finland's security situation, but added that there was no immediate threat. Russia launched what is describes as a "special military operation" in Ukraine on February 24. Finland, which has long adhered to a policy of military non-alignment and neutrality, shares a 1,340 kilometer border with Russia. Finnish public support for joining NATO was for years at around 20-25 percent. But since the start of the Russia-Ukraine conflict, it has shot up to a record high of 76 percent, according to the latest opinion poll conducted by Yle, a major Finnish media company. Meanwhile, Finland's Scandinavian neighbor Sweden is also expected to make a decision on applying for NATO membership in the coming days. NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg has said the countries could join "quickly" and that he was sure arrangements could be found for the interim period. Niinisto and British Prime Minister Boris Johnson signed a joint statement pledging mutual assistance on Wednesday evening during Johnson's visit to Helsinki. Earlier in the day, Johnson signed a similar document with Swedish Prime Minister Magdalena Andersson in Harpsund, Sweden. Last month Russia warned of unspecified "consequences" should Finland and Sweden join NATO. "The choice is up to the authorities of Sweden and Finland. But they should understand the consequences of such a step for our bilateral relations and the architecture of European security as a whole," Russian Foreign Ministry spokeswoman Maria Zakharova said in a statement.