Facing new global challenges, BRICS countries should be in line with the world trend, build consensus, strengthen confidence, and make efforts in handling the world changes, Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi said on Thursday. Wang made the remarks when chairing a meeting of the BRICS Ministers of Foreign Affairs via video link. Noting that the BRICS Foreign Ministers' Meeting is an important platform for BRICS political and security cooperation, Wang said that BRICS countries should seek common security together, work for common development, strive to build a firewall for human health, and advocate a global governance philosophy of extensive consultation, joint contribution and shared benefits. Wang stressed that all parties should further strengthen strategic communication and coordination and political mutual trust, and deepen mutually beneficial cooperation in various fields. All parties should seek strength through unity, and further demonstrate openness and inclusiveness, he added. South African Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Naledi Pandor, Brazilian Foreign Minister Carlos Franca, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, and Indian External Affairs Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar attended the meeting. The foreign ministers spoke highly of China's active and effective work as it holds the rotating BRICS presidency, and agreed to deepen the BRICS strategic partnership, enhance the influence of BRICS countries in international affairs, and safeguard the common interests of emerging markets and developing countries. The foreign ministers appreciated China's active role in fighting the COVID-19 pandemic and coping with global climate change, and are willing to strengthen cooperation in various fields. All sides agreed to fully implement the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, better benefit the people of developing countries and promote the building of a community with a shared future for mankind. The foreign ministers supported advancing the process of BRICS expansion and indicated that further discussions would be held on this issue. They also exchanged views on matters related to Ukraine and Afghanistan. (Cover: South African Minister of International Relations and Cooperation Naledi Pandor, Brazilian Foreign Minister Carlos Franca, Russian Foreign Minister Sergey Lavrov, Indian External Affairs Minister Subrahmanyam Jaishankar, and Chinese State Councilor and Foreign Minister Wang Yi attend the meeting of the BRICS Ministers of Foreign Affairs via video link, May 19, 2022. /Chinese Foreign Ministry)