Inauguration of South Korean President-elect Yoon Suk-yeol South Korean President-elect Yoon Suk-yeol, who won the presidential election on March 9, will succeed incumbent President Moon Jae-in on Tuesday. Chinese Vice President Wang Qishan will attend the inauguration as a special envoy of President Xi Jinping, Chinese Foreign Ministry spokesperson Zhao Lijian said. Finland to decide to apply for NATO membership Finland will decide to apply for NATO membership on May 12, Finnish newspaper Iltalehti reported last week, citing anonymous government sources. The decision to join will come in two steps on that day, with Finnish President Sauli Niinisto first announcing his approval for the Nordic neighbor of Russia to join the Western defense alliance, followed by parliamentary groups giving their approval for the application, the paper reported. Russia has warned it will deploy nuclear weapons and hypersonic missiles in its Baltic coast enclave of Kaliningrad if Finland and Sweden decide to join the U.S.-led NATO alliance. Biden to attend a summit for ASEAN leaders U.S. President Joe Biden will attend a summit for leaders of the Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN) at the U.S. State Department on May 13, White House press secretary Jen Psaki said. The summit, originally scheduled for March, "will demonstrate the United States' enduring commitment to ASEAN," Psaki said in a statement. "It is a top priority for the Biden-Harris administration to serve as a strong, reliable partner in Southeast Asia," the statement said. The meeting was postponed since some ASEAN leaders were not available on dates proposed by the U.S., as the Ukraine crisis continued to deepen. Biden attended a virtual summit with ASEAN leaders last October, announcing the expansion of engagements with ASEAN on climate change, COVID-19, economic growth and more. Day by day MONDAY: Russia holds military parades to commemorate the end of World War Two; South Korea and the United States begin joint military drills. TUESDAY: U.S. President Joe Biden meets Italian PM Mario Draghi; inauguration of South Korean President-elect Yoon Suk-yeol. WEDNESDAY: WHO virtual press conference on COVID-19 and other global issues. THURSDAY: U.S.-ASEAN special summit, where Biden hosts the leaders of ASEAN; G7 foreign ministers meet; Finland decides to apply for NATO. FRIDAY: G7 foreign ministers meet. SATURDAY: NATO foreign ministers' informal meeting on Ukraine. Sunday: A quiet day in politics. (With input from agencies)