"It's the bumpiest the track has ever been," seven-time world champion Lewis Hamilton said of the track for Sunday's Monaco Grand Prix, skysports.com reported on Friday. "There are, like, 100 bumps on just one straight. It's like... eyeballs coming out of the sockets. I don't know whether the others are experiencing the same as us. But it's the bumpiest roller-coaster ride." The Monaco race, the seventh of the season taking place, takes place at the Circuit de Monaco. Charles Leclerc of Ferrari ranked first in practice on Friday. Hamilton endured a nightmare day after failing to build on progress made at last weekend's Spanish GP as he finished only 12th. "It's different bouncing to what we've experienced in the past because it's in the low speed [corners] also, but it's not aero. The bumps are making it worse," the Mercedes driver said. "As anticipated, I didn't think we'd be as quick as the Ferraris and the Red Bulls. Our battle is to try and stay away from the McLarens," he added. "I remember my first years here, a light nimble car going round and it was so much better. Now we have these super heavy cars." Hamilton warned that Mercedes is "not on the right path yet." "It's not turning around yet, but we're, we're almost done," he said. "We're not on the right path yet. But we're nearly on the right path. We're working towards it. If we were on the right path, we would be winning races, but we've come a long, long way. "There's been amazing work done in the background and we understand the car a lot more and we understand more of the direction that we need to go so yes, we are on a better track, because we were on the wrong track before." McLaren's F1 cars will feature Ayrton Senna's logo permanently from the Monaco GP onwards, Formula1.com reported on Friday. "Starting from the 2022 Monaco Grand Prix, the McLaren MCL36 will carry the Senna logo, marking our commitment to celebrate his legacy. I can't think of a better race than the Monaco Grand Prix to commence this recognition of Ayrton's life," said McLaren Racing CEO Zak Brown. Senna, the late Brazilian legend, won F1 World Championships in 1988, 1990 and 1991 and a record six Monaco Grands Prix with McLaren. He died during the 1994 San Marino GP while driving for Williams.