Astonishing. Stupendous. Prodigious. All the adjectives on Earth would struggle to do justice to this epic rally on Wednesday night. When Riyad Mahrez put Manchester City 5-3 ahead on aggregate and the Champions League semifinal second leg went into injury time, there was a sense of doom in the Santiago Bernabeu Stadium. After pulling off miraculous comebacks at home against Paris Saint-Germain in the round of 16 and Chelsea in the quarterfinals, Real Madrid were flummoxed. They didn't even manage a single shot on target inside the first 90 minutes. It seemed that there would be no miracle for the newly-crowned Spanish champions this time. However, the knock-out stage of this Champions League campaign has repeatedly taught us you should never, ever write off Carlo Ancelotti's exceptionally resilient players. Yet few could have predicted what was to happen. First, Brazilian substitute Rodrygo gave Real a massive lifeline with a brilliant close range effort with 91 minutes on the clock. And one minute later, he leveled the tie with a header courtesy of a superb cross from Dani Carvajal. Incredibly, the game ultimately went to extra-time. City, who thought they were just a matter of minutes away from facing Premier League rivals Liverpool in the final, were utterly stunned. With the Bernabeu crowd rocking and in a state of euphoria, Madrid swung the momentum in their favor. As the clock is ticking, Karim Benzema was brought down by Ruben Dias in the box and the French striker stepped up to take the penalty himself and eventually clinched a 6-5 win on aggregate. Madrid became the first team ever to lose a match in the last 16 (0-1 vs. PSG), quarterfinal (2-3 vs. Chelsea) and semifinal (3-4 vs. Man City) in a season and still reach the Champions League final. Benzema has now scored 43 goals in 43 games in all competitions this season and equalled Cristiano Ronaldo's record of most Champions League knockout goals in a single season. As another fightback added to the Madrid team's long list of unforgettable European nights, Ancelotti was overjoyed at the impressive result. "The greatness of this club. It's just that. It's a club that doesn't allow you to give up when it looks like it's all over," he beamed. "It gives you the strength to carry on and continue and fight and believe, that's what we did." "I cannot say we are used to living this kind of life, but what happened tonight happened against Chelsea and also against Paris...The weight of this shirt, all the history of this club, the pride we all have to be part of this club, a bit of everything," added the Italian tactician, who will be the first man to coach in five European Cup finals. In stark contrast, City manager Pep Guardiola struggled to comprehend how his team imploded, blowing their chance of reaching a second successive final. "We were so close to reaching a Champions League final. We didn’t play that good in the first half but we were much better in the second half, we controlled the game and we found the goal. Unfortunately, we could not finish it when we were close," he observed. "We did not feel like we were under siege. We were in the lead, we had been very good in the second half and we had two good chances... They attacked with five: four forwards and Militao. But at that moment we didn't feel that we were in trouble with the way that they attacked." "And just as the moment when we were at our best, they found the goal. Then one minute later, they found another. They have done it lots of times in their history so it could happen to us." It is now 11 years since Guardiola last lifted the Champions League trophy. A fragile mentality coupled with defensive weakness have undone all his and City's hard work in the showpiece event. But Guardiola has to bounce back quickly and lift his players' heads for the Premier League title race. If City lose any of their last four league games, Liverpool will have the chance to overtake them and snatch away the title. For City, the agonizing wait goes on.