Karim Benzema drew level with Real Madrid great Raul Gonzalez Blancoas as the Spanish giants' second-highest goalscorer by netting his 323rd goal for the club in a 6-0 thrashing of Levante on Thursday. The France striker headed in Real's second goal against Levante at the Santiago Bernabeu stadium in Madrid to reach the mark. Cristiano Ronaldo remains well clear at the top of Madrid's all-time goalscoring charts with 451. Benzema has now scored 44 times in as many appearances this season as Carlo Ancelotti's side have wrapped up the La Liga title and reached the Champions League final, where they will play Liverpool in Paris on May 28. Ferland Mendy opened the scoring for Madrid before Benzema's effort. Levante had no answer as Rodrygo bagged another and Vinícius Junior a hat-trick in a thrashing that consigned the beaten club to relegation. Other results saw Real Sociedad seal European competition next season with a 3-0 victory over Cadiz and Villarreal hammer Rayo Vallecano 5-1. In the Premier League, Harry Kane scored twice as Tottenham beat 10-man Arsenal 3-0 on Thursday with a north London derby masterclass that kept alive their hopes of finishing in the league's top four. Kane tormented Arsenal once again as the Tottenham striker opened the scoring with a controversial penalty. Crucially, Arsenal's Rob Holding was sent off for two bookings in seven minutes. Kane netted again before the interval and Son Heung-min bagged Tottenham's third goal in the second half. Instead of sealing a return to the Champions League for the first time since the 2016-17 season, fourth-placed Arsenal now face a nerve-jangling conclusion to the top-four battle. Arsenal still hold a slender advantage, but the end of their four-match winning run leaves them just one point ahead of fifth-placed Tottenham, with both sides having two games left. Tottenham's manager Antonio Conte said several weeks ago that it would be a "miracle" if Tottenham reached the Champions League given their lowly position when he replaced the sacked Nuno Espirito Santo in November. Conte believes finishing in the top four is "like winning a title in another country, a big achievement" given the depth of talent and wealth at the top of the Premier League. (With input from agencies)