Trayvon Bromell and Elaine Thompson-Herah grabbed 100m Diamond League victories Saturday in Eugene, the United States. America's Bromell, the fastest man in the world last year, bounced back from a false start disqualification in Birmingham last weekend to win a star-studded men's 100m in 9.93sec. Bromell, who clocked a wind-aided 9.75 in Florida earlier this month, said his race left plenty of room for improvement as he looks toward the U.S. World Championship trials in Eugene next month and the Worlds themselves. "I was happy to come out with a win, but I felt like there was a lot of technical stuff I messed up on," he said. "I'm pretty sure I'm already getting messages from my coach." Compatriot Fred Kerley, silver medallist at the Tokyo Olympics last year, was second in 9.98 and reigning world champion Christian Coleman, still working his way back after an 18-month suspension for violating doping whereabouts rules, completed a U.S. podium sweep in 10.04. Meanwhile, Jamaica's Thompson-Herah, who won back-to-back Olympic 100m-200m doubles in 2016 and last year, captured the women's 100m in 10.79. "I'm excited I crossed the line healthy," Thompson-Herah said. "I don't care about the time. The rain was falling. It was a little cold." "It shows I'm on a great path," added the Jamaican star, who pulled out of the Birmingham Diamond League meeting with a shoulder injury, testing herself in a lower-level meeting in Kingston last Saturday instead. Despite intermittent rain, the day included a host of world-leading performances. Double Olympic champion Faith Kipyegon of Kenya won the 1,500m in a world-leading 3:52.59, while Tokyo winner Jasmine Camacho-Quinn of Puerto Rico made light work of the women's 100m hurdles in 12.45 seconds. Tokyo silver medallist Keely Hodgkinson of Britain broke away down the back stretch to hold off world bronze medallist Ajee Wilson in the 800m. Ethiopian Berihu Aregawi brought the fans to their feet as he demolished the men's 5,000m field by 16 seconds in a world-leading 12:50.05. Brazilian Olympic bronze medallist Alison dos Santos improved on his own world-leading time to win the men's 400m hurdles in 47.23. The meeting served as a dry run for July's world championships, which will be held in the United States for the first time at the recently renovated Eugene facility. (With input from agencies)