A senior Chinese diplomat said Thursday that achieving peace is the best protection for children in Ukraine. "Achieving peace is the best protection for children. Dialogue and negotiation is the most realistic and feasible way to reach a cease-fire," said Dai Bing, China's deputy permanent representative to the United Nations, during a Security Council meeting on the issue of children and education in Ukraine. China welcomes the presidential statement adopted by the Security Council on Ukraine on Friday, which calls for the peaceful settlement of international disputes and voices support for the UN secretary-general's efforts to promote peace, Dai said. Sanctions will not bring peace, but will only accelerate the spillover of the crisis, triggering sweeping food, energy, and financial crises across the globe, and making children around the world suffer the bitter consequences, he warned. "China once again calls on all parties to stay rational and exercise restraint, transcend prejudice and divisions, and make unremitting efforts for the early resolution of the crisis in Ukraine and for children to enjoy a peaceful future," said Dai. The conflict has uprooted more than half of the Ukrainian children, millions of whom have taken refuge in neighboring countries. China appreciates the safe shelter, humanitarian assistance, and psychological support provided to them by Ukraine, neighboring countries, various UN agencies and other humanitarian organizations, he said. "China calls on the international community to continue to step up relief efforts to ensure that every child in need can receive effective assistance." Dai also called for efforts to reduce the risk of human trafficking, sexual exploitation and abuse faced by Ukrainian children seeking refuge, especially those separated or unaccompanied. China supports the UN Children's Fund in helping the Ukrainian government provide educational supplies and learning opportunities for internally displaced children and encourages host countries to integrate refugee children into their own education systems to ensure that the rights of children to education are not disrupted, Dai said. (With input from Xinhua)