The number of disabled people employed in southwest China's Tibet Autonomous Region has reached 17,786, according to the regional employment service center for the disabled. The data was released at an event held in Lhasa, capital of Tibet, on Sunday, the nation's annual day for helping people with disabilities. The event provided rehabilitation devices and employment consultations and organized a product exhibition to promote the development of the region's services for people with disabilities. "We provide more than 100 assistive devices to people in need free of charge," said Xie Qing, a staffer from the regional rehabilitation service center for the disabled, adding that the center dispatched staff to more than 20 remote counties last year to offer disabled individuals free walking sticks, crutches and hearing aids. Handicrafts, including thangka paintings, liquid Tibetan incense and incense burners made by the disabled, were displayed in the exhibition area on the same day. Nyizhoen, 30, a saleswoman in the exhibition area, said that in her company, more than 90 percent of the workers are people with disabilities, and the handicrafts they make will be sold through e-commerce channels. Sunday was China's National Day for Helping the Disabled, an occasion when special activities are launched to raise public awareness about helping the vulnerable group. The day falls on the third Sunday in May in China. The country has decided to move online the application for living allowance for the financially-challenged disabled population and nursing care subsidy for those living with severe disabilities, starting from Sunday. The new rule will alleviate the pressure of on-site visits for people living with disabilities, according to a statement jointly released by the Ministry of Civil Affairs and China Disabled Persons' Federation (CDPF). China has about 85 million disabled people, according to CDPF. During the 13th Five-Year Plan period (2016-2020), some 1.81 million jobs were offered to people with disabilities in urban and rural areas, and an average of 400,000 disabled people participated in government-subsidized vocational training programs each year, according to the CDPF. The country will continue to increase employment opportunities for the disabled in culture, art, mental health and internet services, an action plan issued by the State Council said. (With input from Xinhua)