Chinese President Xi Jinping on Wednesday reiterated that China's resolve to open up at a high standard will not change, and the door of China will open still wider to the world. President Xi made the remarks when addressing the conference of the 70th anniversary of the China Council for the Promotion of International Trade (CCPIT) and the Global Trade and Investment Promotion Summit via video link. Since its establishment in 1952, the CCPIT has played an important role in strengthening the bond of interests between Chinese and foreign enterprises, promoting international economic and trade exchanges and promoting the development of relations, he said. The 70-year journey of the CCPIT has been an epitome of China's ever-expanding opening-up endeavor, and an important witness of how businesses from different countries could share in development opportunities and benefit from win-win cooperation, he added. Noting that currently economic globalization is experiencing headwinds, and the world is entering a new period of volatility and transformation, the president made several proposals. Joint efforts are needed in defeating the COVID-19 pandemic, he said, adding that it is important to put people and their lives first, actively engage in international cooperation on vaccine R&D, production and distribution, and bolster global public health governance. On reinvigorating trade and investment, he stressed supporting the WTO-centered multilateral trading regime, ensuring security and stability of the global industrial and supply chains, and making the "pie" of cooperation bigger to allow development gains to better trickle down to people of all countries. He also emphasized the efforts to unleash the power of innovation in driving development, calling for fostering an open, fair, equitable and non-discriminatory environment for scientific and technological development.  On improving global governance, he said true multilateralism must be upheld. "We should choose dialogue over confrontation, tear down walls rather than erect walls, pursue integration instead of decoupling, opt for inclusiveness, not exclusion, and guide reforms of the global governance system with the principle of fairness and justice," he said. China will pursue high-standard implementation of the Regional Comprehensive Economic Partnership agreement and high-quality Belt and Road cooperation, and offer more market, investment and growth opportunities to the global business community, he added.